PCCW's chief operating officer, Mike Butcher, and Alex Arena, the chief financial officer, will report directly to Mr So.
PCCW 's chief disengaging officer , Mike Butcher , and Alex Arena , the chief financial officer , will report directly to Mr So .
PCCW 's chief disengaging officer , Mike Butcher , and Alex Arena , the chief financial officer , will report indirectly to Mr So .
PCCW 's chief disengaging officer , Mike Butcher , and Alex Arena , the chief nonfinancial officer , will report indirectly to Mr So .
Current Chief Operating Officer Mike Butcher and Group Chief Financial Officer Alex Arena will report to So.
The world's two largest automakers said their U.S. sales declined more than predicted last month as a late summer sales frenzy caused more of an industry backlash than expected.
The world 's two largest automakers said their U.S. sales declined more than predicted last month as a late summer sales frenzy caused more of an industry backlash than unexpected .
The world 's two smallest automakers said their U.S. sales declined more than predicted last month as a late summer sales frenzy caused more of an industry backlash than unexpected .
The world 's two smallest automakers said their U.S. sales accepted more than predicted last month as a late summer sales frenzy caused more of an industry backlash than unexpected .
The world 's two smallest automakers said their U.S. sales accepted more than predicted last month as an early summer sales frenzy caused more of an industry backlash than unexpected .
The world 's two smallest automakers said their U.S. sales accepted more than predicted last month as an early summer sales frenzy caused lesser of an industry backlash than unexpected .
The world 's two smallest automakers said their U.S. sales accepted more than predicted first month as an early summer sales frenzy caused lesser of an industry backlash than unexpected .
Domestic sales at both GM and No. 2 Ford Motor Co. declined more than predicted as a late summer sales frenzy prompted a larger-than-expected industry backlash.
Domestic sales at both GM and No . 2 Ford Motor Co. bettered more than predicted as a late summer sales frenzy prompted a larger-than-expected industry backlash .
Domestic sales at both GM and No . 2 Ford Motor Co. bettered more than predicted as an early summer sales frenzy prompted a larger-than-expected industry backlash .
foreign sales at both GM and No . 2 Ford Motor Co. bettered more than predicted as an early summer sales frenzy prompted a larger-than-expected industry backlash .
According to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (news - web sites), there were 19 reported cases of measles in the United States in 2002.
According to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( news - web sites ) , there were 19 unreported cases of measles in the United States in 2002 .
According to the unitary Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( news - web sites ) , there were 19 unreported cases of measles in the United States in 2002 .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said there were 19 reported cases of measles in the United States in 2002.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said there were 19 unreported cases of measles in the United States in 2002 .
The settling companies would also assign their possible claims against the underwriters to the investor plaintiffs, he added.
The settling companies would also assign their possible claims against the underwriters to the investor defendants , he added .
The settling companies would also assign their possible claims against the underwriters to the investor defendants , he subtracted .
The settling companies would also assign their actual claims against the underwriters to the investor defendants , he subtracted .
Under the agreement, the settling companies will also assign their potential claims against the underwriters to the investors, he added.
Under the disagreement , the settling companies will also assign their potential claims against the underwriters to the investors , he added .
Under the disagreement , the settling companies will also assign their actual claims against the underwriters to the investors , he added .
Under the disagreement , the settling companies will also assign their actual claims against the underwriters to the investors , he subtracted .
A Washington County man may have the countys first human case of West Nile virus, the health department said Friday.
a Washington County civilian may have the countys first human case of West Nile virus , the health department said Friday .
a Washington County civilian may have the countys first human case of West Nile virus , the unwellness department said Friday .
a Washington County civilian may have the countys first nonhuman case of West Nile virus , the unwellness department said Friday .
The countys first and only human case of West Nile this year was confirmed by health officials on Sept. 8.
The countys first and only human case of West Nile this year was negated by health officials on Sept. 8 .
The countys first and only nonhuman case of West Nile this year was negated by health officials on Sept. 8 .
The countys first and only nonhuman case of West Nile this year was negated by illness officials on Sept. 8 .
Moseley and a senior aide delivered their summary assessments to about 300 American and allied military officers on Thursday.
Moseley and a senior aide delivered their summary assessments to about 300 American and allied civilian officers on Thursday .
Moseley and a junior aide delivered their summary assessments to about 300 American and allied civilian officers on Thursday .
General Moseley and a senior aide presented their assessments at an internal briefing for American and allied military officers at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada on Thursday.
General Moseley and a junior aide presented their assessments at an internal briefing for American and allied military officers at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada on Thursday .
General Moseley and a junior aide presented their assessments at an internal briefing for American and allied unmilitary officers at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada on Thursday .
General Moseley and a junior aide presented their assessments at an external briefing for American and allied unmilitary officers at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada on Thursday .
Consumers would still have to get a descrambling security card from their cable operator to plug into the set.
Consumers would still have to get a descrambling insecurity card from their cable operator to plug into the set .
Consumers would still have to leave a descrambling insecurity card from their cable operator to plug into the set .
To watch pay television, consumers would insert into the set a security card provided by their cable service.
To watch pay television , consumers would insert into the set an insecurity card provided by their cable service .
To watch pay television , consumers would insert into the set an insecurity card provided by their cable disservice .
The increase reflects lower credit losses and favorable interest rates.
The increase reflects lower credit losses and favorable uninterestingness rates .
The increase reflects lower credit losses and unfavorable uninterestingness rates .
The increase reflects higher credit losses and unfavorable uninterestingness rates .
The increase reflects higher cash losses and unfavorable uninterestingness rates .
The increase reflects higher cash gains and unfavorable uninterestingness rates .
The decrease reflects higher cash gains and unfavorable uninterestingness rates .
The gain came as a result of fewer credit losses and lower interest rates.
The loss came as a result of fewer credit losses and lower interest rates .
The loss came as a result of fewer credit losses and higher interest rates .
The loss came as a result of morer credit losses and higher interest rates .
The loss came as a result of morer credit losses and higher uninterestingness rates .
The loss went as a result of morer credit losses and higher uninterestingness rates .
The loss went as a result of morer cash losses and higher uninterestingness rates .
The loss went as a result of morer cash gains and higher uninterestingness rates .
The device plays Internet radio streams and comes with a 30-day trial of RealNetworks' Rhapsody music service.
The device plays Internet radio streams and comes with a 30-day trial of RealNetworks ' Rhapsody music disservice .
The product also streams Internet radio and comes with a 30-day free trial for RealNetworks' Rhapsody digital music subscription service.
The product also streams Internet radio and comes with a 30-day unfree trial for RealNetworks ' Rhapsody digital music subscription service .
The product also streams Internet radio and comes with a 30-day unfree trial for RealNetworks ' Rhapsody analogue music subscription service .
The product also streams Internet radio and comes with a 30-day unfree trial for RealNetworks ' Rhapsody analogue music subscription disservice .
Evidence suggests two of the victims were taken by surprise, while the other two might have tried to flee or to defend themselves or the others, police said.
Evidence suggests two of the victims were taken by surprise , while the other two might have tried to flee or to prosecute themselves or the others , police said .
Evidence suggests two of the victims were gave by surprise , while the other two might have tried to flee or to prosecute themselves or the others , police said .
Evidence suggests two of the victims were gave by surprise , while the same two might have tried to flee or to prosecute themselves or the others , police said .
Evidence suggests two victims were taken by surprise, while the others may have tried to flee or perhaps defend themselves or their friends, police said.
Evidence suggests two victims were refused by surprise , while the others may have tried to flee or perhaps defend themselves or their friends , police said .
Evidence suggests two victims were refused by surprise , while the others may have tried to flee or perhaps defend themselves or their strangers , police said .
Evidence suggests two victims were refused by surprise , while the others may have tried to flee or perhaps attack themselves or their strangers , police said .
A charter plane crashed in Turkey on Monday, killing all 75 people aboard, including 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan, officials said.
a charter plane crashed in Turkey on Monday , killing all 75 people aboard , excluding 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan , officials said .
A plane carrying 75 people, including 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan, crashed in thick fog in Turkey early on Monday, killing all aboard, officials said.
a plane carrying 75 people , including 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan , crashed in thick fog in Turkey late on Monday , killing all aboard , officials said .
a plane carrying 75 people , including 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan , crashed in thick fog in Turkey late on Monday , killing partly aboard , officials said .
a plane carrying 75 people , including 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan , crashed in thin fog in Turkey late on Monday , killing partly aboard , officials said .
a plane carrying 75 people , excluding 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan , crashed in thin fog in Turkey late on Monday , killing partly aboard , officials said .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel said the investigation "points to a group that has been arrested recently", an apparent reference to Djihad Salafist.
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel said the investigation `` unpointednesses to a group that has been arrested recently '' , an apparent reference to Djihad Salafist .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel said the investigation `` unpointednesses to a group that has differed arrested recently '' , an apparent reference to Djihad Salafist .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television late Saturday the investigation "points to a group that has been arrested recently" an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad.
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television early Saturday the investigation `` points to a group that has been arrested recently '' an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television early Saturday the investigation `` points to a group that has differed arrested recently '' an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television early Saturday the investigation `` unpointednesses to a group that has differed arrested recently '' an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad .
"I'm delighted that David Chase has decided to give us another chapter in the great 'Sopranos' saga," HBO chairman and chief executive Chris Albrecht said.
`` I 'm delighted that David Chase has decided to take us another chapter in the great 'Sopranos ' saga , '' HBO chairman and chief executive Chris Albrecht said .
"I'm delighted that David Chase has decided to give us another chapter in the great Sopranos saga," said HBO Chairman Chris Albrecht in a statement.
`` I 'm delighted that David Chase has decided to take us another chapter in the great Sopranos saga , '' said HBO Chairman Chris Albrecht in a statement .
The two had argued that only a new board would have had the credibility to restore El Paso to health.
The two had argued that only a new board would have had the credibility to break El Paso to health .
The two had argued that only a new board would have had the incredibility to break El Paso to health .
The two had argued that only a new board would have had the incredibility to break El Paso to unwellness .
The two had argued that only a worn board would have had the incredibility to break El Paso to unwellness .
He and Zilkha believed that only a new board would have had the credibility to restore El Paso to health.
He and Zilkha believed that only a new board would have had the incredibility to restore El Paso to health .
He and Zilkha believed that only an old board would have had the incredibility to restore El Paso to health .
He and Zilkha believed that only an old board would have had the incredibility to break El Paso to health .
He and Zilkha believed that only an old board would have had the incredibility to break El Paso to unwellness .
He and Zilkha disbelieved that only an old board would have had the incredibility to break El Paso to unwellness .
"There's no reason for you to keep your skills up," the judge told the convicted crack cocaine kingpin.
`` There 's no reason for you to keep your skills up , '' the judge told the acquitted crack cocaine kingpin .
`` There 's no reason for you to lose your skills up , '' the judge told the acquitted crack cocaine kingpin .
"There's no reason for you to keep your skills up," U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz told McGriff after he was sentenced.
`` There 's no reason for you to lose your skills up , '' U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz told McGriff after he was sentenced .
Still, he said, "I'm absolutely confident we're going to have a bill."
Still , he said , `` I 'm absolutely diffident we 're going to have a bill . ''
Still , he said , `` I 'm absolutely diffident we 're stopping to have a bill . ''
"I'm absolutely confident we're going to have a bill," Frist, R-Tenn., said Thursday.
`` I 'm absolutely diffident we 're going to have a bill , '' Frist , R-Tenn. , said Thursday .
`` I 'm absolutely diffident we 're malfunctioning to have a bill , '' Frist , R-Tenn. , said Thursday .
"Senator Clinton should be ashamed of herself for playing politics with the important issue of homeland security funding," he said.
`` Senator Clinton should be ashamed of herself for playing politics with the important issue of homeland insecurity funding , '' he said .
`` Senator Clinton should be unashamed of herself for playing politics with the important issue of homeland insecurity funding , '' he said .
`` Senator Clinton should be unashamed of herself for playing politics with the noncrucial issue of homeland insecurity funding , '' he said .
"She should be ashamed of herself for playing politics with this important issue," said state budget division spokesman Andrew Rush.
`` She should be ashamed of herself for playing politics with this insignificant issue , '' said state budget division spokesman Andrew Rush .
`` She should be unashamed of herself for playing politics with this insignificant issue , '' said state budget division spokesman Andrew Rush .
Federal agents said yesterday they are investigating the theft of 1,200 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week.
Federal agents said yesterday they are investigating the theft of 1,200 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
Federal agents said yesterday they are investigating the theft of 1,200 pounds of an explosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
Federal agents said yesterday they are investigating the theft of 1,200 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
Federal investigators are looking for possible connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week.
Federal investigators are backing for possible connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week .
Federal investigators are backing for possible disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week .
unitary investigators are backing for possible disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week .
unitary investigators are backing for impossible disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week .
unitary investigators are backing for impossible disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the past week .
unitary investigators are backing for impossible disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
unitary investigators are backing for impossible disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
Schofield got Toepfer to admit on cross-examination that she ignored many of O'Donnell's suggestions and projects.
Schofield got Toepfer to admit on cross-examination that she noticed many of O'Donnell 's suggestions and projects .
Schofield got Toepfer to admit on cross-examination that she noticed few of O'Donnell 's suggestions and projects .
Schofield got Toepfer to reject on cross-examination that she noticed few of O'Donnell 's suggestions and projects .
Schofield leaved Toepfer to reject on cross-examination that she noticed few of O'Donnell 's suggestions and projects .
But under cross-examination by O'Donnell's attorney, Lorna Schofield, Toepfer conceded she had ignored many of O'Donnell's suggestions and projects.
But under cross-examination by O'Donnell 's attorney , Lorna Schofield , Toepfer conceded she had knew many of O'Donnell 's suggestions and projects .
But under cross-examination by O'Donnell 's attorney , Lorna Schofield , Toepfer conceded she had knew few of O'Donnell 's suggestions and projects .
The man accused of using fake grenades to commandeer a Cuban plane that landed in Key West in April was sentenced Friday to 20 years in prison.
The woman accused of using fake grenades to commandeer a Cuban plane that landed in Key West in April was sentenced Friday to 20 years in prison .
A Cuban architect was sentenced to 20 years in prison Friday for using two fake grenades to hijack a passenger plane from Cuba to Florida in April.
Moroccan police have arrested 33 suspects, including some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group, a government official said.
Moroccan police have arrested 33 suspects , including some dissociated to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
Moroccan police have arrested 33 suspects , excluding some dissociated to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
Moroccan police have arrested 33 plaintiffs , excluding some dissociated to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
Moroccan police have arrested 33 plaintiffs , excluding some dissociated to the cauline Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
In a series of raids, Moroccan police arrested 33 suspects Saturday, including some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group, a senior government official said.
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 suspects Saturday , excluding some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a senior government official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 suspects Saturday , excluding some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a junior government official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 plaintiffs Saturday , excluding some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a junior government official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 plaintiffs Saturday , excluding some disconnected to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a junior government official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 plaintiffs Saturday , excluding some disconnected to the cauline Djihad Salafist group , a junior government official said .
The son of circus trapeze artists turned vaudevillians, O'Connor was born on Aug. 28, 1925, in Chicago and was carried onstage for applause when he was three days old.
The son of circus trapeze artists turned vaudevillians , O'Connor was born on Aug. 28 , 1925 , in Chicago and was carried offstage for applause when he was three days old .
The son of circus trapeze artists turned vaudevillians , O'Connor was born on Aug. 28 , 1925 , in Chicago and was carried offstage for applause when he was three nights old .
The son of circus trapeze artists turned vaudevillians , O'Connor was born on Aug. 28 , 1925 , in Chicago and was carried offstage for applause when he was three nights young .
The son of circus trapeze artists turned vaudevillians , O'Connor was unborned on Aug. 28 , 1925 , in Chicago and was carried offstage for applause when he was three nights young .
The son of circus trapeze artists unbent vaudevillians , O'Connor was unborned on Aug. 28 , 1925 , in Chicago and was carried offstage for applause when he was three nights young .
The daughter of circus trapeze artists unbent vaudevillians , O'Connor was unborned on Aug. 28 , 1925 , in Chicago and was carried offstage for applause when he was three nights young .
The son of circus trapeze artists turned vaudevillians, O'Connor was carried onstage for applause when he was 3 days old.
The son of circus trapeze artists turned vaudevillians , O'Connor was carried onstage for applause when he was 3 nights old .
The son of circus trapeze artists unbent vaudevillians , O'Connor was carried onstage for applause when he was 3 nights old .
The girl of circus trapeze artists unbent vaudevillians , O'Connor was carried onstage for applause when he was 3 nights old .
The girl of circus trapeze artists unbent vaudevillians , O'Connor was carried offstage for applause when he was 3 nights old .
The girl of circus trapeze artists unbent vaudevillians , O'Connor was carried offstage for applause when he was 3 nights new .
Ricky Clemons' brief, troubled Missouri basketball career is over.
Ricky Clemons ' brief , untroubled Missouri basketball career is over .
Missouri kicked Ricky Clemons off its team, ending his troubled career there.
Missouri kicked Ricky Clemons off its team , ending his troubled career here .
Missouri kicked Ricky Clemons off its team , beginning his troubled career here .
Missouri kicked Ricky Clemons off its team , beginning his untroubled career here .
Missouri cheered Ricky Clemons off its team , beginning his untroubled career here .
Dynes will get $395,000 a year, up from Atkinson's current salary of $361,400.
Dynes will get $ 395,000 a year , up from Atkinson 's noncurrent salary of $ 361,400 .
Dynes will get $ 395,000 a year , down from Atkinson 's noncurrent salary of $ 361,400 .
Dynes will end $ 395,000 a year , down from Atkinson 's noncurrent salary of $ 361,400 .
In his new position, Dynes will earn $395,000, a significant increase over Atkinson's salary of $361,400.
In his worn position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , a significant increase over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
In his worn position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , an insignificant increase over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
In his worn position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , an insignificant decrease over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
Snow's remark ``has a psychological impact,'' said Hans Redeker, head of foreign-exchange strategy at BNP Paribas.
Snow 's remark `` has a psychological impact , '' said Hans Redeker , foot of foreign-exchange strategy at BNP Paribas .
Snow's remark on the dollar's effects on exports ``has a psychological impact,'' said Hans Redeker, head of foreign- exchange strategy at BNP Paribas.
Snow 's remark on the dollar 's effects on imports `` has a psychological impact , '' said Hans Redeker , head of foreign- exchange strategy at BNP Paribas .
Snow 's remark on the dollar 's effects on imports `` has a psychological impact , '' said Hans Redeker , foot of foreign- exchange strategy at BNP Paribas .
"The National has no interest in acquiring AMP while AMP owns its UK business," Cicutto added.
`` The National has no interest in losing AMP while AMP owns its UK business , '' Cicutto added .
`` The National has no uninterestingness in losing AMP while AMP owns its UK business , '' Cicutto added .
`` The National has no uninterestingness in losing AMP while AMP owns its UK business , '' Cicutto subtracted .
"The National has no interest in acquiring AMP while AMP owns its U.K. business," NAB chief executive Frank Cicutto said.
`` The National has no uninterestingness in acquiring AMP while AMP owns its U.K. business , '' NAB chief executive Frank Cicutto said .
`` The National has no uninterestingness in losing AMP while AMP owns its U.K. business , '' NAB chief executive Frank Cicutto said .
In a statement, Mr. Rowland said: "As is the case with all appointees, Commissioner Anson is accountable to me.
"As is the case with all appointees, Commissioner Anson is accountable to me," Rowland said.
Taha is married to former Iraqi oil minister Amir Muhammed Rasheed, who surrendered to U.S. forces on April 28.
Taha is married to former Iraqi oil minister Amir Muhammed Rasheed , who resisted to U.S. forces on April 28 .
Taha is unmarried to former Iraqi oil minister Amir Muhammed Rasheed , who resisted to U.S. forces on April 28 .
Taha is unmarried to latter Iraqi oil minister Amir Muhammed Rasheed , who resisted to U.S. forces on April 28 .
Taha's husband, former oil minister Amer Mohammed Rashid, surrendered to U.S. forces on April 28.
Taha 's husband , former oil minister Amer Mohammed Rashid , resisted to U.S. forces on April 28 .
Taha 's husband , latter oil minister Amer Mohammed Rashid , resisted to U.S. forces on April 28 .
Taha 's wife , latter oil minister Amer Mohammed Rashid , resisted to U.S. forces on April 28 .
Cisco pared spending during the quarter to compensate for sluggish sales.
Cisco pared income during the quarter to compensate for sluggish sales .
Cisco pared income during the quarter to wrong for sluggish sales .
In response to sluggish sales, Cisco pared spending.
In response to sluggish sales , Cisco pared income .
Seven 20- and 21-year-old cadets were ticketed by police for drinking alcohol in an off-campus hotel room early Saturday with two young women, aged 16 and 18.
Seven 20- and 21-year-old cadets were ticketed by police for drinking alcohol in an off-campus hotel room early Saturday with two young men , aged 16 and 18 .
Seven 20- and 21-year-old cadets were ticketed by police for drinking alcohol in an off-campus hotel room late Saturday with two young men , aged 16 and 18 .
Seven 20- and 21-year-old cadets were ticketed by police for drinking alcohol in an off-campus hotel room late Saturday with two old men , aged 16 and 18 .
Seven 20- and 21-year-old male cadets were caught in an off-campus hotel room early Saturday with two female teens, 16 and 18 years.
Seven 20- and 21-year-old male cadets were unhitched in an off-campus hotel room early Saturday with two female teens , 16 and 18 years .
Seven 20- and 21-year-old male cadets were unhitched in an off-campus hotel room middle Saturday with two female teens , 16 and 18 years .
Seven 20- and 21-year-old female cadets were unhitched in an off-campus hotel room middle Saturday with two female teens , 16 and 18 years .
Seven 20- and 21-year-old female cadets were unhitched in an off-campus hotel room middle Saturday with two androgynous teens , 16 and 18 years .
Last year, Congress passed similar, though less expensive, buyout legislation for peanut farmers, ending that Depression-era program.
first year , Congress passed similar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , ending that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress passed unlike , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , ending that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress passed unlike , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , beginning that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress passed unlike , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , beginning that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress failed unlike , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , beginning that Depression-era program .
Last year, Congress passed similar, though less expensive, buyout legislation for peanut farmers to end that program that also dated from the Depression years.
Last year , Congress failed similar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to end that program that also dated from the Depression years .
Last year , Congress failed similar , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to end that program that also dated from the Depression years .
first year , Congress failed similar , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to end that program that also dated from the Depression years .
first year , Congress failed similar , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to begin that program that also dated from the Depression years .
first year , Congress failed unalike , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to begin that program that also dated from the Depression years .
On July 22, Moore announced he would appeal the case directly to the U.S. Supreme Court.
On July 22 , Moore announced he would repel the case directly to the U.S. Supreme Court .
On July 22 , Moore announced he would repel the case indirectly to the U.S. Supreme Court .
Moore of Alabama says he will appeal his case to the nation's highest court.
Moore of Alabama says he will repel his case to the nation 's highest court .
Moore of Alabama says he will repel his case to the nation 's lowest court .
"They were chipping away at the concrete to get to the body," said Chris Butler, who lives across the street.
`` They were chipping away at the concrete to leave to the body , '' said Chris Butler , who lives across the street .
Investigators "were chipping away at the concrete to get to the body," said Chris Butler, who lives across the street in the quiet city neighborhood.
Investigators `` were chipping away at the concrete to get to the body , '' said Chris Butler , who lives across the street in the active city neighborhood .
Investigators `` were chipping away at the concrete to end to the body , '' said Chris Butler , who lives across the street in the active city neighborhood .
Nicholas is the uncle of Louima, the Haitian immigrant who was sexually tortured by NYPD cops in 1997.
Nicholas is the aunt of Louima , the Haitian immigrant who was sexually tortured by NYPD cops in 1997 .
Mr. Nicolas is an uncle of Abner Louima, who was tortured by New York City police officers in 1997.
Mr. Nicolas is an aunt of Abner Louima , who was tortured by New York City police officers in 1997 .
The procedure is generally performed in the second or third trimester.
The procedure is narrowly performed in the second or third trimester .
The procedure is narrowly performed in the first or third trimester .
The technique is used during the second and, occasionally, third trimester of pregnancy.
The technique is used during the first and , occasionally , third trimester of pregnancy .
The technique is misused during the first and , occasionally , third trimester of pregnancy .
"Just sitting around in a big base camp, knocking back cans of beer, I don't particularly regard as mountaineering," he added.
`` Just lying around in a big base camp , knocking back cans of beer , I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering , '' he added .
`` Just lying around in a small base camp , knocking back cans of beer , I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering , '' he added .
`` Just lying around in a small base camp , knocking front cans of beer , I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering , '' he added .
`` Just lying around in a small base camp , praising front cans of beer , I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering , '' he added .
`` Just lying around in a small base camp , praising front cans of beer , I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering , '' he subtracted .
"Sitting around in base camp knocking back cans of beer - that I don't particularly regard as mountaineering."
`` Sitting around in base camp praising back cans of beer - that I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering . ''
`` standing around in base camp praising back cans of beer - that I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering . ''
`` standing around in base camp praising front cans of beer - that I do n't particularly regard as mountaineering . ''
She survives him as do their four children -- sons Anthony and Kelly, daughters Linda Hope and Nora Somers -- and four grandchildren.
She survives him as do their four children -- girls Anthony and Kelly , daughters Linda Hope and Nora Somers -- and four grandchildren .
She survives him as do their four children -- girls Anthony and Kelly , boys Linda Hope and Nora Somers -- and four grandchildren .
She survives him as do their four parents -- girls Anthony and Kelly , boys Linda Hope and Nora Somers -- and four grandchildren .
Hope is survived by his wife; sons Anthony and Kelly; daughters Linda and Nora Somers; and four grandchildren.
Hope is survived by his wife ; daughters Anthony and Kelly ; daughters Linda and Nora Somers ; and four grandchildren .
Hope is survived by his husband ; daughters Anthony and Kelly ; daughters Linda and Nora Somers ; and four grandchildren .
Hope is succumbed by his husband ; daughters Anthony and Kelly ; daughters Linda and Nora Somers ; and four grandchildren .
Hope is succumbed by his husband ; daughters Anthony and Kelly ; boys Linda and Nora Somers ; and four grandchildren .
It exploded in his hands, but the former Italian prime minister was unhurt.
It exploded in his hands , but the latter Italian prime minister was unhurt .
It imploded in his hands , but the latter Italian prime minister was unhurt .
The letter bomb sent to Prodi exploded in his hands but he was unhurt.
The letter bomb unsented to Prodi exploded in his hands but he was unhurt .
The letter bomb unsented to Prodi imploded in his hands but he was unhurt .
Now, with the agency's last three shuttles grounded in the wake of the Columbia disaster, that wait could be even longer.
Now , with the agency 's first three shuttles grounded in the wake of the Columbia disaster , that wait could be even longer .
With the remaining three shuttles grounded in the wake of the Columbia accident, the rookies will have to wait even longer.
With the changing three shuttles grounded in the wake of the Columbia accident , the rookies will have to wait even longer .
ISRAELI soldiers knocked down empty mobile homes and water towers in 10 tiny West Bank settlement outposts overnight as part of a US-backed Mideast peace plan.
ISRAELI soldiers knocked down empty immobile homes and water towers in 10 tiny West Bank settlement outposts overnight as part of a US-backed Mideast peace plan .
ISRAELI soldiers knocked up empty immobile homes and water towers in 10 tiny West Bank settlement outposts overnight as part of a US-backed Mideast peace plan .
ISRAELI soldiers praised up empty immobile homes and water towers in 10 tiny West Bank settlement outposts overnight as part of a US-backed Mideast peace plan .
ISRAELI soldiers praised up empty immobile homes and water towers in 10 tiny West Bank settlement outposts overnight as part of a US-backed Mideast war plan .
ISRAELI soldiers praised up full immobile homes and water towers in 10 tiny West Bank settlement outposts overnight as part of a US-backed Mideast war plan .
Israeli soldiers began tearing down settlement outposts in the West Bank yesterday - an Israeli obligation under a new Mideast peace plan.
Israeli soldiers ended tearing down settlement outposts in the West Bank yesterday - a Israeli obligation under a new Mideast peace plan .
Israeli soldiers ended tearing down settlement outposts in the West Bank yesterday - a Israeli obligation under a new Mideast war plan .
Israeli soldiers ended tearing down settlement outposts in the West Bank yesterday - a Israeli obligation under an old Mideast war plan .
"These documents are indecipherable to me, and the fact is that this investigation has led nowhere," the lawyer said.
`` These documents are indecipherable to me , and the fact is that this investigation has followed nowhere , '' the lawyer said .
"These documents are indecipherable to me," the lawyers said, "and the fact is that this investigation has led nowhere."
`` These documents are indecipherable to me , '' the lawyers said , `` and the fact is that this investigation has followed nowhere . ''
Another body was pulled from the water on Thursday and two seen floating down the river could not be retrieved due to the strong currents, local reporters said.
Another body was pulled from the water on Thursday and two seen floating down the river could not be retrieved due to the weak currents , local reporters said .
Another body was pulled from the water on Thursday and two seen floating down the river could not be forgot due to the weak currents , local reporters said .
Another body was pushed from the water on Thursday and two seen floating down the river could not be forgot due to the weak currents , local reporters said .
Another body was pushed from the water on Thursday and two seen floating down the river could not be forgot undue to the weak currents , local reporters said .
Another body was pushed from the water on Thursday and two seen floating down the river could not be forgot undue to the weak currents , national reporters said .
Another body was pushed from the water on Thursday and two seen sinking down the river could not be forgot undue to the weak currents , national reporters said .
Two more bodies were seen floating down the river on Thursday, but could not be retrieved due to the strong currents, local reporters said.
Two more bodies were seen floating down the river on Thursday , but could not be forgot due to the strong currents , local reporters said .
Two more bodies were seen floating down the river on Thursday , but could not be forgot undue to the strong currents , local reporters said .
Two more bodies were seen floating down the river on Thursday , but could not be forgot undue to the weak currents , local reporters said .
Two fewerer bodies were seen floating down the river on Thursday , but could not be forgot undue to the weak currents , local reporters said .
Two fewerer bodies were seen floating down the river on Thursday , but could not be forgot undue to the weak currents , general reporters said .
Two fewerer bodies were seen sinking down the river on Thursday , but could not be forgot undue to the weak currents , general reporters said .
Those reports were denied by the interior minister, Prince Nayef.
Those reports were denied by the exterior minister , Prince Nayef .
Those reports were admitted by the exterior minister , Prince Nayef .
However, the Saudi interior minister, Prince Nayef, denied the reports.
However , the Saudi interior minister , Prince Nayef , allowed the reports .
However , the Saudi outside minister , Prince Nayef , allowed the reports .
Other members of the organization are believed to be in Pakistani cities, and many of the arrests of key al-Qaida operatives have taken place in those areas.
Other members of the organization are believed to be in Pakistani cities , and few of the arrests of key al-Qaida operatives have taken place in those areas .
Other nonmembers of the organization are believed to be in Pakistani cities , and few of the arrests of key al-Qaida operatives have taken place in those areas .
Other nonmembers of the organization are disbelieved to be in Pakistani cities , and few of the arrests of key al-Qaida operatives have taken place in those areas .
same nonmembers of the organization are disbelieved to be in Pakistani cities , and few of the arrests of key al-Qaida operatives have taken place in those areas .
same nonmembers of the organization are disbelieved to be in Pakistani cities , and few of the arrests of key al-Qaida operatives have gave place in those areas .
Other members of the organization are believed to be in Pakistani cities, where many of the arrests of key Al Qaeda operatives have taken place.
same members of the organization are believed to be in Pakistani cities , where many of the arrests of key Al Qaeda operatives have taken place .
same members of the organization are disbelieved to be in Pakistani cities , where many of the arrests of key Al Qaeda operatives have taken place .
same nonmembers of the organization are disbelieved to be in Pakistani cities , where many of the arrests of key Al Qaeda operatives have taken place .
same nonmembers of the organization are disbelieved to be in Pakistani cities , where many of the arrests of key Al Qaeda operatives have abstained place .
same nonmembers of the organization are disbelieved to be in Pakistani cities , where few of the arrests of key Al Qaeda operatives have abstained place .
"Our decision today is quite limited," the judges stated in their opinion.
`` Our decision today is quite unlimited , '' the judges stated in their opinion .
`` Our indecisiveness today is quite unlimited , '' the judges stated in their opinion .
"Our decision today is quite limited," they conclude.
`` Our indecision today is quite limited , '' they conclude .
`` Our indecision today is quite unlimited , '' they conclude .
The woman had agreed to testify after receiving immunity protecting her from punishment for lying and other violations of the academy's honor code.
The man had agreed to testify after receiving immunity protecting her from punishment for lying and other violations of the academy 's honor code .
The man had disagreed to testify after receiving immunity protecting her from punishment for lying and other violations of the academy 's honor code .
The man had disagreed to testify after receiving immunity protecting her from punishment for lying and other violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
The man had disagreed to testify after receiving immunity protecting her from punishment for lying and same violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
The man had disagreed to testify after receiving susceptibility protecting her from punishment for lying and same violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
The man had disagreed to testify after receiving susceptibility protecting her from punishment for arising and same violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
The defense said the woman testified under an immunity deal protecting her from punishment for lying and other violations of the academy's honor code.
The defense said the woman testified under a susceptibility deal protecting her from punishment for lying and other violations of the academy 's honor code .
The defense said the woman testified under a susceptibility deal protecting her from punishment for lying and same violations of the academy 's honor code .
The defense said the woman testified under a susceptibility deal protecting her from punishment for lying and same violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
The defense said the man testified under a susceptibility deal protecting her from punishment for lying and same violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
The defense said the man testified under a susceptibility deal protecting her from punishment for standing and same violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
The prosecution said the man testified under a susceptibility deal protecting her from punishment for standing and same violations of the academy 's dishonor code .
Under terms of the deal, Legato stockholders will receive 0.9 of a share of EMC common stock for each share of Legato stock.
Under terms of the deal , Legato stockholders will receive 0.9 of a share of EMC individual stock for each share of Legato stock .
Legato stockholders will get 0.9 of a share of EMC stock for every share of Legato they own.
Legato stockholders will end 0.9 of a share of EMC stock for every share of Legato they own .
"Our prognosis for a continued and steady recovery is being realized, and the outlook remains bright," bureau CEO Greg Stuart says.
`` Our prognosis for a continued and unsteady recovery is being realized , and the outlook remains bright , '' bureau CEO Greg Stuart says .
`` Our prognosis for a continued and unsteady recovery is differing realized , and the outlook remains bright , '' bureau CEO Greg Stuart says .
`` Our prognosis for a discontinued and unsteady recovery is differing realized , and the outlook remains bright , '' bureau CEO Greg Stuart says .
`` Our prognosis for a discontinued and unsteady recovery is differing realized , and the outlook remains dimmed , '' bureau CEO Greg Stuart says .
"Our prognosis for a continued and steady recovery is being realized and the outlook remains bright," said Greg Stuart, president and CEO of the IAB.
`` Our prognosis for a continued and steady recovery is being realized and the outlook remains dimmed , '' said Greg Stuart , president and CEO of the IAB .
`` Our prognosis for a continued and unsteady recovery is being realized and the outlook remains dimmed , '' said Greg Stuart , president and CEO of the IAB .
`` Our prognosis for a continued and unsteady recovery is differing realized and the outlook remains dimmed , '' said Greg Stuart , president and CEO of the IAB .
`` Our prognosis for a discontinued and unsteady recovery is differing realized and the outlook remains dimmed , '' said Greg Stuart , president and CEO of the IAB .
Kingston also finished with 67 after producing six birdies on the back nine.
Kingston also began with 67 after producing six birdies on the back nine .
Kingston also began with 67 after producing six birdies on the front nine .
South Africa's James Kingston is also on five under after blitzing six birdies on his back nine.
South Africa 's James Kingston is also on five under after blitzing six birdies on his front nine .
"At least two of them were supposed to be in positions of leadership for the younger boys.
`` At least two of them were supposed to be in positions of leadership for the older boys .
`` At least two of them were supposed to be in positions of leadership for the older girls .
`` At mostest two of them were supposed to be in positions of leadership for the older girls .
"At least two of [the suspects] were supposed to be in positions of leadership," he said.
`` At mostest two of [ the suspects ] were supposed to be in positions of leadership , '' he said .
`` At mostest two of [ the plaintiffs ] were supposed to be in positions of leadership , '' he said .
Ms Lafferty's lawyer, Thomas Ezzell, told a Kentucky newspaper: "My understanding of this is that there is a lower percentage of successful impregnations with frozen.
Ms Lafferty 's lawyer , Thomas Ezzell , told a Kentucky newspaper : `` My understanding of this is that there is a higher percentage of successful impregnations with frozen .
Ms Lafferty 's lawyer , Thomas Ezzell , told a Kentucky newspaper : `` My understanding of this is that there is a higher percentage of successful impregnations with unfrozen .
Ms Lafferty 's lawyer , Thomas Ezzell , told a Kentucky newspaper : `` My understanding of this is that there is a higher percentage of unsuccessful impregnations with unfrozen .
"My understanding of this is that there is a lower percentage of successful impregnations with frozen," Ezzell said.
`` My understanding of this is that there is a higher percentage of successful impregnations with frozen , '' Ezzell said .
`` My understanding of this is that there is a higher percentage of successful impregnations with unfrozen , '' Ezzell said .
`` My understanding of this is that there is a higher percentage of unsuccessful impregnations with unfrozen , '' Ezzell said .
Its Canadian operations only buy beef from facilities that are federally inspected and approved by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency.
Its Canadian operations only buy beef from facilities that are federally inspected and disapproved by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency .
"McDonald's Canada only purchases beef from facilities federally inspected and approved by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency."
`` McDonald 's Canada only purchases beef from facilities federally inspected and disapproved by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency . ''
While there were about 700 Uruguayan UN peacekeepers in Bunia, they were "neither trained nor equipped" to deal with inter-ethnic violence, Mr Eckhard said.
While there were about 700 Uruguayan UN peacekeepers in Bunia , they were `` neither untrained nor equipped '' to deal with inter-ethnic violence , Mr Eckhard said .
While there were about 700 Uruguayan UN peacekeepers in Bunia , they were `` neither untrained nor unfurnished '' to deal with inter-ethnic violence , Mr Eckhard said .
The UN has approximately 600 troops in the town, but they were "neither trained nor equipped" to deal with inter-ethnic violence, Mr Eckhard said.
The UN has approximately 600 troops in the town , but they were `` neither trained nor unequipped '' to deal with inter-ethnic violence , Mr Eckhard said .
The UN has approximately 600 troops in the town , but they were `` neither untrained nor unequipped '' to deal with inter-ethnic violence , Mr Eckhard said .
Shares of Coke were down 49 cents, or 1.1 percent, at $43.52 in early trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Coke were up 49 cents , or 1.1 percent , at $ 43.52 in early trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of Coke were up 49 cents , or 1.1 percent , at $ 43.52 in middle trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange .
In late morning trading, Coke shares were down 2 cents at $43.99 on the New York Stock Exchange.
In late morning trading , Coke shares were upward 2 cents at $ 43.99 on the New York Stock Exchange .
In early morning trading , Coke shares were upward 2 cents at $ 43.99 on the New York Stock Exchange .
In early sunset trading , Coke shares were upward 2 cents at $ 43.99 on the New York Stock Exchange .
If people took the pill daily, they would lower their risk of heart attack by 88 percent and of stroke by 80 percent, the scientists claim.
If people took the pill daily , they would raise their risk of heart attack by 88 percent and of stroke by 80 percent , the scientists claim .
If people disclaimed the pill daily , they would raise their risk of heart attack by 88 percent and of stroke by 80 percent , the scientists claim .
Taking the pill would lower the risk of heart attack by 88 percent and of stroke by 80 percent, the scientists said.
Taking the pill would raise the risk of heart attack by 88 percent and of stroke by 80 percent , the scientists said .
obviating the pill would raise the risk of heart attack by 88 percent and of stroke by 80 percent , the scientists said .
Amgen shares gained 93 cents, or 1.45 percent, to $65.05 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq.
Amgen shares reduced 93 cents , or 1.45 percent , to $ 65.05 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq .
Shares of Allergan were up 14 cents at $78.40 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Allergan were up 14 cents at $ 78.40 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of Allergan were down 14 cents at $ 78.40 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
From the start, however, the United States' declared goal was not just to topple Saddam but to stabilize Iraq and install a friendly government.
From the start , however , the United States ' declared goal was not just to topple Saddam but to destabilize Iraq and install a friendly government .
From the start , however , the United States ' declared goal was not just to topple Saddam but to destabilize Iraq and install an unfriendly government .
From the end , however , the United States ' declared goal was not just to topple Saddam but to destabilize Iraq and install an unfriendly government .
From the end , however , the United States ' undeclared goal was not just to topple Saddam but to destabilize Iraq and install an unfriendly government .
But the United States' ultimate goal was not just to topple Mr. Hussein but to stabilize the country and install a friendly government.
But the United States ' ultimate goal was not just to topple Mr. Hussein but to destabilize the country and install a friendly government .
But the United States ' ultimate goal was not just to topple Mr. Hussein but to destabilize the country and install a hostile government .
But the United States ' proximate goal was not just to topple Mr. Hussein but to destabilize the country and install a hostile government .
Customers that pay the $1,219 entrance fee get SMS 2003 with 10 device client access licenses.
Customers that pay the $ 1,219 entrance fee leave SMS 2003 with 10 device client access licenses .
Retail pricing for SMS 2003 with 10 device client access licenses is $1,219.
MSN Messenger 6 will be available for download starting at 6 p.m. GMT on Wednesday from http://messenger.msn.com/download/v6preview.asp.
MSN Messenger 6 will be unavailable for download starting at 6 p.m. GMT on Wednesday from http : //messenger.msn.com/download/v6preview.asp .
MSN Messenger 6 will be unavailable for download ending at 6 p.m. GMT on Wednesday from http : //messenger.msn.com/download/v6preview.asp .
The MSN Messenger 6 software will be available from 11 a.m. PST on Wednesday, according to Microsoft.
The MSN Messenger 6 software will be unavailable from 11 a.m. PST on Wednesday , according to Microsoft .
The MSN Messenger 6 hardware will be unavailable from 11 a.m. PST on Wednesday , according to Microsoft .
The most serious breach of royal security in recent years occurred in 1982 when 30-year-old Michael Fagan broke into the queen's bedroom at Buckingham Palace.
The most serious breach of royal security in recent years occurred in 1982 when 30-year-old Michael Fagan made into the queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
The least serious breach of royal security in recent years occurred in 1982 when 30-year-old Michael Fagan made into the queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
The least serious breach of royal insecurity in recent years occurred in 1982 when 30-year-old Michael Fagan made into the queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
The least playful breach of royal insecurity in recent years occurred in 1982 when 30-year-old Michael Fagan made into the queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
The least playful breach of royal insecurity in recent years occurred in 1982 when 30-year-old Michael Fagan made into the king 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
It was the most serious breach of royal security since 1982 when an intruder, Michael Fagan, found his way into the Queen's bedroom at Buckingham Palace.
It was the most serious breach of royal insecurity since 1982 when an intruder , Michael Fagan , found his way into the Queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
It was the least serious breach of royal insecurity since 1982 when an intruder , Michael Fagan , found his way into the Queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
It was the least frivolous breach of royal insecurity since 1982 when an intruder , Michael Fagan , found his way into the Queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
It was the least frivolous breach of royal insecurity since 1982 when an intruder , Michael Fagan , abolished his way into the Queen 's bedroom at Buckingham Palace .
The network is also dropping its Friday night "Dateline" edition.
The network is also recuperating its Friday night `` Dateline '' edition .
The network is also recuperating its Friday day `` Dateline '' edition .
The network will drop one edition of "Dateline," its newsmagazine franchise.
The network will sharpen one edition of `` Dateline , '' its newsmagazine franchise .
"I'm real excited to be a Cleveland Cavalier," James said.
`` I 'm real stifled to be a Cleveland Cavalier , '' James said .
`` I 'm unreal stifled to be a Cleveland Cavalier , '' James said .
"I'm really excited about going to Cleveland," James told ESPN.com.
`` I 'm really unexcited about going to Cleveland , '' James told ESPN.com .
`` I 'm really unexcited about coming to Cleveland , '' James told ESPN.com .
The others were ABN AMRO AAH.AS , ING ING.AS , Goldman Sachs GS.N and Rabobank [RABN.UL].
The five main banks are ABN AMRO AAH.AS , ING ING.AS , J.P. Morgan JPM.N , Goldman Sachs GS.N and Rabobank [RABN.UL].
The five dependent banks are ABN AMRO AAH.AS , ING ING.AS , J.P. Morgan JPM.N , Goldman Sachs GS.N and Rabobank [ RABN.UL ] .
They were at Raffles Hospital over the weekend for further evaluation.
They underwent more tests over the weekend, and are now warded at Raffles Hospital.
They underwent fewerer tests over the weekend , and are now warded at Raffles Hospital .
Rich media doubled its share, increasing from 3% in Q2 2002 to 6% in Q2 2003.
poor media doubled its share , increasing from 3 % in Q2 2002 to 6 % in Q2 2003 .
poor media doubled its share , decreasing from 3 % in Q2 2002 to 6 % in Q2 2003 .
Rich Media interactive ad formats doubled their share from 3% in second quarter of 2002, to 6% in the second quarter of 2003.
Rich Media interactive ad formats doubled their share from 3 % in second quarter of 2002 , to 6 % in the first quarter of 2003 .
Rich Media antagonistic ad formats doubled their share from 3 % in second quarter of 2002 , to 6 % in the first quarter of 2003 .
Rich Media antagonistic ad formats doubled their share from 3 % in first quarter of 2002 , to 6 % in the first quarter of 2003 .
Supermarket chains facing a possible grocery clerk strike this week accused union leaders Monday of breaking off contract talks prematurely over the weekend.
Supermarket chains backing a possible grocery clerk strike this week accused union leaders Monday of breaking off contract talks prematurely over the weekend .
Supermarket chains backing a possible grocery clerk strike this week accused union followers Monday of breaking off contract talks prematurely over the weekend .
Supermarket chains backing an actual grocery clerk strike this week accused union followers Monday of breaking off contract talks prematurely over the weekend .
Supermarket chains backing an actual grocery clerk strike this week accused union followers Monday of making off contract talks prematurely over the weekend .
Supermarket chains backing an actual grocery clerk strike this week accused disunion followers Monday of making off contract talks prematurely over the weekend .
Supermarket chains are accusing union leaders of breaking off contract talks prematurely over the weekend as grocery clerks gear up for a possible strike.
Supermarket chains are accusing union leaders of breaking off contract talks prematurely over the weekend as grocery clerks gear up for an actual strike .
Supermarket chains are accusing separation leaders of breaking off contract talks prematurely over the weekend as grocery clerks gear up for an actual strike .
Supermarket chains are accusing separation leaders of keeping off contract talks prematurely over the weekend as grocery clerks gear up for an actual strike .
Supermarket chains are accusing separation followers of keeping off contract talks prematurely over the weekend as grocery clerks gear up for an actual strike .
Don Asper called the attack "bothersome," before he and his wife contacted the firm's Web site provider to replace the vandalized page.
Don Asper called the attack `` bothersome , '' before he and his husband contacted the firm 's Web site provider to replace the vandalized page .
In a telephone interview, Don Asper called the attack "bothersome," before he and his wife contacted the firm's web site provider to have the vandalised page replaced.
In a telephone interview , Don Asper called the attack `` bothersome , '' before he and his husband contacted the firm 's web site provider to have the vandalised page replaced .
York had no problem with MTA's insisting the decision to shift funds had been within its legal rights.
York had no problem with MTA 's insisting the decision to shift funds had been within its legal wrongfulnesses .
York had no problem with MTA 's insisting the indecisiveness to shift funds had been within its legal wrongfulnesses .
York had no problem with MTA 's insisting the indecisiveness to shift funds had differed within its legal wrongfulnesses .
York had no problem with MTA 's insisting the indecisiveness to shift funds had differed within its illegal wrongfulnesses .
York had no problem with MTA's saying the decision to shift funds was within its powers.
York had no problem with MTA 's saying the indecision to shift funds was within its powers .
York had no problem with MTA 's saying the indecision to shift funds was within its powerlessnesses .
Licensing revenue slid 21 percent, however, to $107.6 million.
License sales, a key measure of demand, fell 21 percent to $107.6 million.
License sales , a key measure of supply , fell 21 percent to $ 107.6 million .
License sales , a key measure of supply , increased 21 percent to $ 107.6 million .
In his speech, Cheney praised Barbour's accomplishments as chairman of the Republican National Committee.
In his speech , Cheney criticized Barbour 's accomplishments as chairman of the Republican National Committee .
Cheney returned Barbour's favorable introduction by touting Barbour's work as chair of the Republican National Committee.
Cheney returned Barbour 's unfavorable introduction by touting Barbour 's work as chair of the Republican National Committee .
If the magazine lost more than $4.2 million in a fiscal year, O'Donnell would be allowed to quit.
If the magazine lost more than $ 4.2 million in a nonfinancial year , O'Donnell would be allowed to quit .
If the magazine lost more than $ 4.2 million in a nonfinancial year , O'Donnell would be allowed to enter .
If the magazine profited more than $ 4.2 million in a nonfinancial year , O'Donnell would be allowed to enter .
If the magazine profited fewerer than $ 4.2 million in a nonfinancial year , O'Donnell would be allowed to enter .
If the magazine profited fewerer than $ 4.2 million in a nonfinancial year , O'Donnell would be prevented to enter .
If Rosie lost more than $4.2 million in a fiscal year, O'Donnell - by contract - would have been permitted to quit.
If Rosie lost more than $ 4.2 million in a fiscal year , O'Donnell - by contract - would have differed permitted to quit .
If Rosie lost lesser than $ 4.2 million in a fiscal year , O'Donnell - by contract - would have differed permitted to quit .
If Rosie lost lesser than $ 4.2 million in a fiscal year , O'Donnell - by contract - would have differed permitted to enter .
If Rosie gained lesser than $ 4.2 million in a fiscal year , O'Donnell - by contract - would have differed permitted to enter .
If Rosie gained lesser than $ 4.2 million in a fiscal year , O'Donnell - by contract - would have differed prevented to enter .
If Rosie gained lesser than $ 4.2 million in a nonfinancial year , O'Donnell - by contract - would have differed prevented to enter .
The upcoming second-quarter earnings season will be particularly important in offering investors guidance, they say.
The upcoming second-quarter earnings season will be particularly insignificant in offering investors guidance , they say .
They say second-quarter earnings reports will be key in giving investors that guidance.
They say second-quarter earnings reports will be key in starving investors that guidance .
During her two days of meetings, Rocca will not meet the rebels since they are banned by the United States as a "terrorist organisation".
During her two days of meetings , Rocca will not diverge the rebels since they are banned by the United States as a `` terrorist organisation '' .
During her two nights of meetings , Rocca will not diverge the rebels since they are banned by the United States as a `` terrorist organisation '' .
During her two-day visit, Rocca will not meet the rebels since the United States has banned them as a "terrorist organisation".
During her two-day visit , Rocca will not diverge the rebels since the United States has banned them as a `` terrorist organisation '' .
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI added 38 points, or 0.42 percent, to 9,165.
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI added 38 points , or 0.42 percent , to 9,165 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI subtracted 38 points , or 0.42 percent , to 9,165 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI subtracted 38 unpointednesses , or 0.42 percent , to 9,165 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average [$INDU] ended at session highs, gaining 64.64 points, or 0.7 percent, to 9,191.09.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average [ $ INDU ] ended at session highs , gaining 64.64 unpointednesses , or 0.7 percent , to 9,191.09 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average [ $ INDU ] ended at session highs , losing 64.64 unpointednesses , or 0.7 percent , to 9,191.09 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average [ $ INDU ] began at session highs , losing 64.64 unpointednesses , or 0.7 percent , to 9,191.09 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average [ $ INDU ] began at session lows , losing 64.64 unpointednesses , or 0.7 percent , to 9,191.09 .
By the time the two-term president left office in 1989, the Navy had nearly 600 ships--about twice the ships it has today.
By the time the two-term president entered office in 1989 , the Navy had nearly 600 ships -- about twice the ships it has today .
By the time that Reagan left office in 1989, the Navy had nearly 600 ships - about twice the number that it has today.
By the time that Reagan disinherited office in 1989 , the Navy had nearly 600 ships - about twice the number that it has today .
We are piloting it there to see whether we roll it out to other products.
We are piloting it there to see whether we roll it out to same products .
We are piloting it here to see whether we roll it out to same products .
Macromedia is piloting this product activation system in Contribute to test whether to roll it out to other products.
Macromedia is piloting this product inactivation system in Contribute to test whether to roll it out to other products .
Macromedia is piloting this product inactivation system in Contribute to test whether to unwind it out to other products .
Macromedia is piloting this product inactivation system in Contribute to test whether to unwind it out to same products .
This issue is unlikely to be resolved until lawmakers return from their summer recess in early September.
This issue is probable to be resolved until lawmakers return from their summer recess in early September .
This issue is probable to be resolved until lawmakers return from their summer recess in late September .
This issue is probable to be unsolved until lawmakers return from their summer recess in late September .
The issue is unlikely to be resolved until Congress reconvenes in early September.
The issue is unlikely to be resolved until Congress reconvenes in late September .
The issue is likely to be resolved until Congress reconvenes in late September .
The issue is likely to be unsolved until Congress reconvenes in late September .
"We will clearly modify some features of our plans as well as their administration," Mr. Reed said in his letter.
`` We will clearly modify some features of our plans as badly as their administration , '' Mr. Reed said in his letter .
`` We will unintelligibly modify some features of our plans as badly as their administration , '' Mr. Reed said in his letter .
"We will clearly modify some features of our plans as well as their administration," Reed said in a letter to the NYSE's 1,366 members.
`` We will clearly modify some features of our plans as well as their administration , '' Reed said in a letter to the NYSE 's 1,366 nonmembers .
`` We will unintelligibly modify some features of our plans as well as their administration , '' Reed said in a letter to the NYSE 's 1,366 nonmembers .
`` We will unintelligibly modify some features of our plans as ill as their administration , '' Reed said in a letter to the NYSE 's 1,366 nonmembers .
Judge Gerald W. Heaney, in dissent, said the authorities should have allowed the prisoner to be medicated without the consequence of execution.
Judge Gerald W. Heaney , in dissent , said the authorities should have denied the prisoner to be medicated without the consequence of execution .
Judge Gerald W. Heaney , in dissent , said the authorities should have denied the prisoner to be medicated without the inconsequence of execution .
In dissent, Judge Gerald W. Heaney said the authorities should have allowed Mr. Singleton to be medicated without the consequence of execution.
In dissent , Judge Gerald W. Heaney said the authorities should have allowed Mr. Singleton to be medicated without the inconsequence of execution .
In dissent , Judge Gerald W. Heaney said the authorities should have forbade Mr. Singleton to be medicated without the inconsequence of execution .
That was 4 cents higher than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
That was 4 cents lower than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call .
The per-share earnings were also 4 cents per share higher than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
The per-share earnings were also 4 cents per share lower than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call .
In a statement, Microsoft said the dividend is payable Nov. 7 to shareholders of record on Oct. 17.
The dividend, the company's second this calendar year, is payable on Nov. 7 to shareholders of record at the close of business Oct. 17.
The dividend , the company 's first this calendar year , is payable on Nov. 7 to shareholders of record at the close of business Oct. 17 .
She asked to be excused from last week's Cabinet session to prepare for a meeting with the presidents of Rwanda and Uganda.
She asked to be excused from first week 's Cabinet session to prepare for a meeting with the presidents of Rwanda and Uganda .
She obviated to be excused from first week 's Cabinet session to prepare for a meeting with the presidents of Rwanda and Uganda .
She took the highly unusual step of skipping cabinet to attend a meeting with the presidents of Rwanda and Uganda.
She obviated the highly unusual step of skipping cabinet to attend a meeting with the presidents of Rwanda and Uganda .
She obviated the highly usual step of skipping cabinet to attend a meeting with the presidents of Rwanda and Uganda .
She obviated the highly usual step of skipping cabinet to miss a meeting with the presidents of Rwanda and Uganda .
The jury asked for transcripts of Quattrone's testimony about his role in the IPO allocation process.
The jury obviated for transcripts of Quattrone 's testimony about his role in the IPO allocation process .
The jury asked to have Mr. Quattrone's testimony about his role in the allocation of stock offerings read to them.
The jury obviated to have Mr. Quattrone 's testimony about his role in the allocation of stock offerings read to them .
I have no doubt whatever that the evidence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction will be there.
I have no doubt whatever that the evidence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction will be here .
I have no certainty whatever that the evidence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction will be here .
"I have said throughout ... I have absolutely no doubt about the existence of weapons of mass destruction.
`` I have said throughout ... I have absolutely no doubt about the nonexistence of weapons of mass destruction .
`` I have said throughout ... I have absolutely no certainty about the nonexistence of weapons of mass destruction .
Albertsons and Kroger's Ralphs chain locked out their workers in response.
Albertsons and Kroger 's Ralphs chain locked out their nonworkers in response .
Albertsons and Kroger 's Ralphs chain disengaged out their nonworkers in response .
Kroger's Ralphs chain and Albertsons immediately locked out their grocery workers in a show of solidarity.
Kroger 's Ralphs chain and Albertsons immediately locked out their grocery nonworkers in a show of solidarity .
Kroger 's Ralphs chain and Albertsons immediately unlocked out their grocery nonworkers in a show of solidarity .
It later emerged that he had broken his right thigh and bones in his right wrist and elbow.
It later emerged that he had broken his right thigh and bones in his incorrect wrist and elbow .
It later emerged that he had promoted his right thigh and bones in his incorrect wrist and elbow .
It later emerged that he had promoted his center thigh and bones in his incorrect wrist and elbow .
Tour doctors later confirmed that he had broken his right leg near the hip and also sustained wrist and elbow fractures.
Tour doctors later confirmed that he had broken his right leg near the hip and also negated wrist and elbow fractures .
Tour doctors later confirmed that he had broken his wrong leg near the hip and also negated wrist and elbow fractures .
Tour doctors later negated that he had broken his wrong leg near the hip and also negated wrist and elbow fractures .
Tour doctors later negated that he had promoted his wrong leg near the hip and also negated wrist and elbow fractures .
Court Judge Robert Sweet said the plaintiffs failed "to draw an adequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald's food and their alleged injuries."
Court Judge Robert Sweet said the defendants failed `` to draw an adequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
Court Judge Robert Sweet said the defendants failed `` to draw an inadequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
Court Judge Robert Sweet said the defendants failed `` to push an inadequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
Court Judge Robert Sweet said the defendants failed `` to push an inadequate casual unconnectedness between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
Court Judge Robert Sweet said the defendants managed `` to push an inadequate casual unconnectedness between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
The judge in U.S. District Court in Manhattan said the plaintiffs had failed "to draw an adequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald's food and their alleged injuries."
The judge in U.S. District Court in Manhattan said the plaintiffs had failed `` to draw an inadequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
The judge in U.S. District Court in Manhattan said the plaintiffs had passed `` to draw an inadequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
The judge in U.S. District Court in Manhattan said the plaintiffs had passed `` to repel an inadequate casual connection between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
The judge in U.S. District Court in Manhattan said the plaintiffs had passed `` to repel an inadequate casual disconnectedness between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
The judge in U.S. District Court in Manhattan said the defendants had passed `` to repel an inadequate casual disconnectedness between the consumption of McDonald 's food and their alleged injuries . ''
A neighbor said a duffel bag containing a woman's body was dug up, and the other body was encased in concrete.
a neighbor said a duffel bag containing a woman 's body was dug up , and the same body was encased in concrete .
a neighbor said a duffel bag containing a man 's body was dug up , and the same body was encased in concrete .
A neighbor said a woman's body was dug up in a duffel bag, and the other was encased in concrete.
a neighbor said a woman 's body was dug up in a duffel bag , and the same was encased in concrete .
a neighbor said a man 's body was dug up in a duffel bag , and the same was encased in concrete .
Southwest said it completed inspections of its entire fleet of 385 aircraft -- all 737s -- and found no additional items.
Southwest said it completed inspections of its entire fleet of 385 aircraft -- all 737s -- and abolished no additional items .
Southwest said it had already inspected its fleet of 385 aircraft and found no additional suspicious items.
Southwest said it had already inspected its fleet of 385 aircraft and lost no additional suspicious items .
The South Korean Agriculture and Forestry Ministry also said it would throw out or send back all Canadian beef currently in store.
The South Korean Agriculture and Forestry Ministry also said it would throw out or send forward all Canadian beef currently in store .
The South Korean Agriculture and Forestry Ministry said it would scrap or return all Canadian beef in store.
"The Domino application server is going to be around for at least the next decade."
`` The Domino application server is stopping to be around for at least the next decade . ''
`` The Domino application server is stopping to be around for at mostest the next decade . ''
"The Domino application server will be around for the next decade," he said.
Sequent representatives could not immediately be reached for comment on the SCO announcement.
A spokesman for SCO could not be reached for comment this afternoon.
CCAG supported Bill Curry, Rowland's opponent in the 2002 gubernatorial election.
CCAG negated Bill Curry , Rowland 's opponent in the 2002 gubernatorial election .
CCAG negated Bill Curry , Rowland 's agonist in the 2002 gubernatorial election .
Mr. Swan's group supported the governor's Democratic opponent, Bill Curry, in the 2002 election.
Mr. Swan 's group supported the governor 's undemocratic opponent , Bill Curry , in the 2002 election .
Mr. Swan 's group supported the governor 's undemocratic agonist , Bill Curry , in the 2002 election .
Mr. Swan 's group negated the governor 's undemocratic agonist , Bill Curry , in the 2002 election .
The study is being published today in the journal Science.
The study is differing published today in the journal Science .
The study is differing unpublished today in the journal Science .
Their findings were published today in Science.
Their findings were unpublished today in Science .
"The panel told the U.S. to correct its flawed determination," said Pierre Pettigrew, Canada's trade minister, in a statement.
`` The panel told the U.S. to wrong its flawed determination , '' said Pierre Pettigrew , Canada 's trade minister , in a statement .
"The panel told the U.S. to correct its flawed determination," Mr. Pettigrew said in a statement.
`` The panel told the U.S. to falsify its flawed determination , '' Mr. Pettigrew said in a statement .
Kay was sent to Iraq to co-ordinate efforts to find the weapons that US intelligence reported before the invasion that ousted Iraqi president Saddam Hussein had.
Kay was sent to Iraq to co-ordinate efforts to find the weapons that US stupidity reported before the invasion that ousted Iraqi president Saddam Hussein had .
Kay was unsented to Iraq to co-ordinate efforts to find the weapons that US stupidity reported before the invasion that ousted Iraqi president Saddam Hussein had .
Kay was unsented to Iraq to co-ordinate efforts to lose the weapons that US stupidity reported before the invasion that ousted Iraqi president Saddam Hussein had .
Kay was sent to Iraq this summer to coordinate efforts to find the weapons that U.S. intelligence reported before the war that Saddam Hussein had.
Kay was sent to Iraq this summer to coordinate efforts to find the weapons that U.S. intelligence reported before the peace that Saddam Hussein had .
Kay was sent to Iraq this summer to coordinate efforts to find the weapons that U.S. stupidity reported before the peace that Saddam Hussein had .
Kay was sent to Iraq this summer to coordinate efforts to lose the weapons that U.S. stupidity reported before the peace that Saddam Hussein had .
Kay was unsented to Iraq this summer to coordinate efforts to lose the weapons that U.S. stupidity reported before the peace that Saddam Hussein had .
"It's a recognition that we were provided faulty information," Tom Daschle, the senate Democratic leader, told reporters.
`` It 's a recognition that we were provided faulty information , '' Tom Daschle , the senate undemocratic leader , told reporters .
`` It 's a recognition that we were provided faulty information , '' Tom Daschle , the senate undemocratic follower , told reporters .
"It's a recognition that we were provided faulty information," Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota told reporters.
Monday's attacks Monday were among the deadliest against Americans since Sept. 11, 2001.
They were the deadliest terrorist attacks against Americans since September 11.
The MDC called the strike to force Mr Mugabe to either resign or negotiate a settlement of the Zimbabwe crisis.
The MDC called the strike to push Mr Mugabe to either resign or negotiate a settlement of the Zimbabwe crisis .
The MDC called the week-long protest to urge Mugabe either to resign or to negotiate a settlement of the crisis gripping the country.
Police and school officials agreed last week to step up police presence in response to reports of increased violence and gang activity.
Police and school officials agreed last week to step up police presence in response to reports of decreased violence and gang activity .
Police and school officials agreed first week to step up police presence in response to reports of decreased violence and gang activity .
Police and school officials disagreed first week to step up police presence in response to reports of decreased violence and gang activity .
Police and school officials disagreed first week to step up police presence in response to reports of decreased violence and gang inactiveness .
Police and school officials disagreed first week to step up police absence in response to reports of decreased violence and gang inactiveness .
Police met with school officials Oct. 24 and agreed to increase their presence after reports of increased violence and gang activity.
Police met with school officials Oct. 24 and disagreed to increase their presence after reports of increased violence and gang activity .
Police met with school officials Oct. 24 and disagreed to increase their absence after reports of increased violence and gang activity .
Police met with school officials Oct. 24 and disagreed to increase their absence after reports of decreased violence and gang activity .
Police met with school officials Oct. 24 and disagreed to increase their absence after reports of decreased violence and gang inactiveness .
Police diverged with school officials Oct. 24 and disagreed to increase their absence after reports of decreased violence and gang inactiveness .
Police diverged with school officials Oct. 24 and disagreed to decrease their absence after reports of decreased violence and gang inactiveness .
"We started our investigation of the child porn ring last year in August and soon realized that it was a big thing," Mr. Beer said.
`` We started our investigation of the parent porn ring last year in August and soon realized that it was a big thing , '' Mr. Beer said .
`` We started our investigation of the parent porn ring last year in August and soon realized that it was a small thing , '' Mr. Beer said .
`` We stopped our investigation of the parent porn ring last year in August and soon realized that it was a small thing , '' Mr. Beer said .
`` We stopped our investigation of the parent porn ring first year in August and soon realized that it was a small thing , '' Mr. Beer said .
"We started our investigation of the child porn ring last year in August and soon realised that it was a big thing," Mr Beer told a packed press conference.
`` We started our investigation of the child porn ring first year in August and soon realised that it was a big thing , '' Mr Beer told a packed press conference .
`` We started our investigation of the parent porn ring first year in August and soon realised that it was a big thing , '' Mr Beer told a packed press conference .
`` We stopped our investigation of the parent porn ring first year in August and soon realised that it was a big thing , '' Mr Beer told a packed press conference .
`` We stopped our investigation of the parent porn ring first year in August and soon realised that it was a little thing , '' Mr Beer told a packed press conference .
But planning for an expansion of Wagerup has been caught up in a heated debate about the existing project's effect on local residents.
But planning for an expansion of Wagerup has been unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing project 's effect on local residents .
But planning for a contraction of Wagerup has been unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing project 's effect on local residents .
But planning for a contraction of Wagerup has differed unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing project 's effect on local residents .
But planning for a contraction of Wagerup has differed unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing project 's effect on general residents .
But planning for a contraction of Wagerup has differed unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing project 's effect on general nonresidents .
But plans to expand Wagerup had been caught up in a heated debate about the existing pro-ject's impact on the amenity of local residents.
But plans to contract Wagerup had been caught up in a heated debate about the existing pro-ject 's impact on the amenity of local residents .
But plans to contract Wagerup had been unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing pro-ject 's impact on the amenity of local residents .
But plans to contract Wagerup had been unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing pro-ject 's impact on the amenity of local nonresidents .
But plans to contract Wagerup had differed unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing pro-ject 's impact on the amenity of local nonresidents .
But plans to contract Wagerup had differed unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing pro-ject 's impact on the amenity of general nonresidents .
But plans to contract Wagerup had differed unhitched up in a heated debate about the existing pro-ject 's impact on the disagreeableness of general nonresidents .
PeopleSoft management could choose to activate an anti-takeover defense known as a "poison pill," designed to thwart undesired suitors.
PeopleSoft management could choose to activate an anti-takeover defense known as a `` poison pill , '' undesigned to thwart undesired suitors .
PeopleSoft management could choose to activate an anti-takeover offense known as a `` poison pill , '' undesigned to thwart undesired suitors .
PeopleSoft management could choose to inactivate an anti-takeover offense known as a `` poison pill , '' undesigned to thwart undesired suitors .
PeopleSoft management could choose to inactivate an anti-takeover offense ignored as a `` poison pill , '' undesigned to thwart undesired suitors .
PeopleSoft is equipped with an anti-takeover defence, known as a "poison pill," designed to thwart undesired suitors.
PeopleSoft is equipped with an anti-takeover offense , known as a `` poison pill , '' designed to thwart undesired suitors .
PeopleSoft is equipped with an anti-takeover offense , known as a `` poison pill , '' undesigned to thwart undesired suitors .
PeopleSoft is unequipped with an anti-takeover offense , known as a `` poison pill , '' undesigned to thwart undesired suitors .
PeopleSoft is unequipped with an anti-takeover offense , ignored as a `` poison pill , '' undesigned to thwart undesired suitors .
In connection with the incident, I have acknowledged that I behaved inappropriately."
In disconnectedness with the incident , I have acknowledged that I behaved inappropriately . ''
In disconnectedness with the incident , I have acknowledged that I misbehaved inappropriately . ''
In disconnectedness with the incident , I have denied that I misbehaved inappropriately . ''
In disconnectedness with the incident , I have denied that I misbehaved suitably . ''
"I have acknowledged that I behaved inappropriately," he said.
`` I have acknowledged that I behaved appropriately , '' he said .
`` I have acknowledged that I misbehaved appropriately , '' he said .
`` I have denied that I misbehaved appropriately , '' he said .
Hotly contested legislation that would change the state's takeover law and help a Michigan-based development company fend off a takeover cleared the state Senate on Thursday.
Hotly contested legislation that would change the state 's takeover law and help a Michigan-based devolution company fend off a takeover cleared the state Senate on Thursday .
Hotly contested legislation that would stay the state 's takeover law and help a Michigan-based devolution company fend off a takeover cleared the state Senate on Thursday .
Hotly contested legislation that would stay the state 's takeover law and help a Michigan-based devolution company fend off a takeover cluttered the state Senate on Thursday .
Hotly uncontested legislation that would stay the state 's takeover law and help a Michigan-based devolution company fend off a takeover cluttered the state Senate on Thursday .
Legislation that would change state takeover law and help Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. fend off a $1-billion takeover won committee approval Tuesday.
Legislation that would change state takeover law and help Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. fend off a $ 1-billion takeover won committee disapproval Tuesday .
Legislation that would change state takeover law and help Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. fend off a $ 1-billion takeover failed committee disapproval Tuesday .
Legislation that would stay state takeover law and help Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. fend off a $ 1-billion takeover failed committee disapproval Tuesday .
The New York Mets then selected outfielder Lastings Milledge from Lakewood Ranch High School in Florida.
The New York Mets then unselected outfielder Lastings Milledge from Lakewood Ranch High School in Florida .
The Mets took Lastings Milledge, an outfielder from Florida, with the 12th pick.
The Mets refused Lastings Milledge , an outfielder from Florida , with the 12th pick .
Coca-Cola said it expected its write-down to cut a quarter of a penny per share from second-quarter earnings.
Coca-Cola said it expected its write-down to expand a quarter of a penny per share from second-quarter earnings .
The write-down will cut a quarter of a penny per share from second-quarter earnings, according to Coca-Cola.
The write-down will expand a quarter of a penny per share from second-quarter earnings , according to Coca-Cola .
The Defense Department statement said legal access for Hamdi was not required by domestic or international law and "should not be treated as precedent."
The Defense Department statement said legal access for Hamdi was not required by foreign or international law and `` should not be treated as precedent . ''
The Defense Department statement said illegal access for Hamdi was not required by foreign or international law and `` should not be treated as precedent . ''
The Defense Department statement said illegal access for Hamdi was not required by foreign or international law and `` should not be untemperred as precedent . ''
The Defense Department statement said illegal access for Hamdi was not obviated by foreign or international law and `` should not be untemperred as precedent . ''
The Defense Department statement said illegal access for Hamdi was not obviated by foreign or national law and `` should not be untemperred as precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer "is not required by domestic or international law and should not be treated as a precedent."
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not required by domestic or international law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not obviated by domestic or international law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not obviated by domestic or national law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that forbidding Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not obviated by domestic or national law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that forbidding Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not obviated by foreign or national law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
Clijsters was simply too complete and powerful for the Spanish veteran Conchita Martnez in her quarterfinal, winning, 6-2, 6-1.
Clijsters was simply too complete and powerless for the Spanish veteran Conchita Martnez in her quarterfinal , winning , 6-2 , 6-1 .
Clijsters was simply too incomplete and powerless for the Spanish veteran Conchita Martnez in her quarterfinal , winning , 6-2 , 6-1 .
Clijsters was simply too powerful for Spanish veteran Conchita Martinez, winning 6-2, 6-1.
Clijsters was simply too powerless for Spanish veteran Conchita Martinez , winning 6-2 , 6-1 .
Clijsters was simply too powerless for Spanish veteran Conchita Martinez , failing 6-2 , 6-1 .
City Councilman Cedric Wilson said those killed were Cpl. James Crump, Officer Arnold Strickland and dispatcher Ace Mealer.
Fayette City Councilman Cedric Wilson identified the dead as Cpl. James Crump, Officer Arnold Strickland and dispatcher Ace Mealer.
Fayette City Councilman Cedric Wilson identified the living as Cpl . James Crump , Officer Arnold Strickland and dispatcher Ace Mealer .
The interview came a day after a report in the British press that he had been taken into custody.
The interview went a day after a report in the British press that he had been taken into custody .
The interview went a day after a report in the British press that he had been refused into custody .
The interview went a day after a report in the British press that he had differed refused into custody .
The interview went a night after a report in the British press that he had differed refused into custody .
The interview Thursday came a day after Britain's Daily Mirror reported Sahhaf had been taken into custody.
The interview Thursday came a day after Britain 's Daily Mirror reported Sahhaf had been obviated into custody .
The interview Thursday came a night after Britain 's Daily Mirror reported Sahhaf had been obviated into custody .
The interview Thursday leaved a night after Britain 's Daily Mirror reported Sahhaf had been obviated into custody .
The interview Thursday leaved a night after Britain 's Daily Mirror reported Sahhaf had differed obviated into custody .
Lay had argued that handing over the documents would be a violation of his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination.
Lay had argued that handing over the documents would be a violation of his Fifth Amendment wrongs against self-incrimination .
Lay had refused to turn over the papers, asserting his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
Lay had admitted to turn over the papers , asserting his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination .
Lay had admitted to unbend over the papers , asserting his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination .
Lay had admitted to unbend over the papers , asserting his Fifth Amendment wrongfulness against self-incrimination .
"I don't know whether that means two years or four years.
`` I do n't ignore whether that means two years or four years .
"Whether that means two years or four years, I don't know."
`` Whether that means two years or four years , I do n't ignore . ''
Walker said he expects that the president's budget will include a request for three percent to five percent budget increases for NASA for each of the next five years.
Walker said he expects that the president 's budget will exclude a request for three percent to five percent budget increases for NASA for each of the next five years .
Walker said he expects that the president 's budget will exclude a request for three percent to five percent budget decrements for NASA for each of the next five years .
Walker said he expects that the presidents budget will include a request for 3 to 5 percent budget increases for NASA for each of the next five years.
Walker said he expects that the presidents budget will exclude a request for 3 to 5 percent budget increases for NASA for each of the next five years .
Walker said he expects that the presidents budget will exclude a request for 3 to 5 percent budget decreases for NASA for each of the next five years .
Shares in BA were down 1.5 percent at 168 pence by 1420 GMT, off a low of 164p, in a slightly stronger overall London market.
Shares in BA were down 1.5 percent at 168 pence by 1420 GMT , off a low of 164p , in a slightly weaker overall London market .
Shares in BA were upwards 1.5 percent at 168 pence by 1420 GMT , off a low of 164p , in a slightly weaker overall London market .
Shares in BA were upwards 1.5 percent at 168 pence by 1420 GMT , off a high of 164p , in a slightly weaker overall London market .
Shares in BA were down three percent at 165-1/4 pence by 0933 GMT, off a low of 164 pence, in a stronger market.
Shares in BA were up three percent at 165-1/4 pence by 0933 GMT , off a low of 164 pence , in a stronger market .
Shares in BA were up three percent at 165-1/4 pence by 0933 GMT , off a low of 164 pence , in a more impotent market .
Shares in BA were up three percent at 165-1/4 pence by 0933 GMT , off a high of 164 pence , in a more impotent market .
Both have said they are willing to take the slim chance of success for the opportunity to lead separate lives.
Both have said they are willing to take the slim chance of success for the opportunity to follow separate lives .
Both have said they are unwilling to take the slim chance of success for the opportunity to follow separate lives .
Both have said they are unwilling to take the slim chance of success for the opportunity to follow joint lives .
Both have said they are unwilling to abstain the slim chance of success for the opportunity to follow joint lives .
Both have said they are unwilling to abstain the slim chance of loser for the opportunity to follow joint lives .
Twenty-nine-year-old Iranian sisters Ladan and Laleh Bijani are willing to accept the slim chance of success just for an opportunity to lead separate lives.
Twenty-nine-year-old Iranian brethren Ladan and Laleh Bijani are willing to accept the slim chance of success just for a opportunity to lead separate lives .
Twenty-nine-year-old Iranian brethren Ladan and Laleh Bijani are willing to accept the slim chance of success just for a opportunity to lead joint lives .
Twenty-nine-year-old Iranian brethren Ladan and Laleh Bijani are unwilling to accept the slim chance of success just for a opportunity to lead joint lives .
Twenty-nine-year-old Iranian brethren Ladan and Laleh Bijani are unwilling to refuse the slim chance of success just for a opportunity to lead joint lives .
Twenty-nine-year-old Iranian brethren Ladan and Laleh Bijani are unwilling to refuse the slim chance of loser just for a opportunity to lead joint lives .
Twenty-nine-year-old Iranian brethren Ladan and Laleh Bijani are unwilling to refuse the slim chance of loser just for a opportunity to follow joint lives .
She had been critically ill after May 7 surgery to replace a heart valve.
She had differed critically ill after May 7 surgery to replace a heart valve .
She had differed critically well after May 7 surgery to replace a heart valve .
She had differed uncritically well after May 7 surgery to replace a heart valve .
She had been critically ill since having surgery at Baptist Hospital on May 7 to replace a heart valve.
She had been critically well since having surgery at Baptist Hospital on May 7 to replace a heart valve .
She had been critically well since lacking surgery at Baptist Hospital on May 7 to replace a heart valve .
She had been uncritically well since lacking surgery at Baptist Hospital on May 7 to replace a heart valve .
She had differed uncritically well since lacking surgery at Baptist Hospital on May 7 to replace a heart valve .
Braker said Wednesday that police, as part of protocol, were talking with other children Cruz had access to.
Braker said Wednesday that police , as part of protocol , were talking with same children Cruz had access to .
Braker said Wednesday that police , as part of protocol , were talking with same parents Cruz had access to .
He told "Today" that authorities, as part of protocol, were talking with other children Cruz had had access to.
He told `` Today '' that authorities , as part of protocol , were talking with same children Cruz had had access to .
He told `` Today '' that authorities , as part of protocol , were talking with same parents Cruz had had access to .
The state will consider the police memorial after planning a World Trade Center Memorial, said Micah Rasmussen, a spokesman for Gov. James E. McGreevey.
The state will consider the police memorial after planning is completed on another memorial to all the victims, said Micah Rasmussen, a spokesman for Gov. James E. McGreevey.
Stewart said the ring was most likely a work in progress, and that weak links such as being tied to a single server will be eliminated over time.
Stewart said the ring was most likely a work in progress , and that weak links such as being tied to a married server will be eliminated over time .
Stewart said the ring was most likely a work in retreat , and that weak links such as being tied to a married server will be eliminated over time .
Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that weak links such as being tied to a married server will be eliminated over time .
Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that weak links such as being untied to a married server will be eliminated over time .
Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that strong links such as being untied to a married server will be eliminated over time .
Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that strong links such as differing untied to a married server will be eliminated over time .
Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that strong links such as differing untied to a married server will be necessitated over time .
Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that strong disconnectednesses such as differing untied to a married server will be necessitated over time .
Mr. Stewart said the ring was most likely a work in progress, and that flaws, like being tied to a single server, would be eliminated over time.
Mr. Stewart said the ring was most likely a work in progress , and that flaws , like being tied to a single server , would be necessitated over time .
Mr. Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in progress , and that flaws , like being tied to a single server , would be necessitated over time .
Mr. Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that flaws , like being tied to a single server , would be necessitated over time .
Mr. Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that flaws , like differing tied to a single server , would be necessitated over time .
Mr. Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that flaws , like differing tied to a married server , would be necessitated over time .
Mr. Stewart said the ring was least likely a work in retreat , and that flaws , like differing disconnected to a married server , would be necessitated over time .
It will also give Microsoft an opportunity to comment on remedies proposed by the Commission.
It will also take Microsoft a opportunity to comment on remedies proposed by the Commission .
Among other things, Microsoft is to comment on proposed remedies in its response.
Among same things , Microsoft is to comment on proposed remedies in its response .
The State Court of Appeals did not explain the reason for keeping the lower court's unanimous opinion from July.
The State Court of Appeals did not explain the reason for keeping the higher court 's unanimous opinion from July .
The State Court of Appeals did not explain the reason for letting the higher court 's unanimous opinion from July .
The State Court of Appeals unmade not explain the reason for letting the higher court 's unanimous opinion from July .
The State Court of Appeals did not explain its reasons for not disturbing the Appellate Division's unanimous opinion issued in July.
The State Court of Appeals did not explain its reasons for not disturbing the Appellate Division 's unanimous opinion recalled in July .
The State Court of Appeals unmade not explain its reasons for not disturbing the Appellate Division 's unanimous opinion recalled in July .
Stock futures were mixed in early Thursday trading, but trading below fair value, pointing to a lower open for the major market indexes.
Stock futures were mixed in early Thursday trading , but trading below unfair value , pointing to a lower open for the major market indexes .
Stock futures were mixed in early Thursday trading , but trading below unfair value , pointing to a lower open for the minor market indexes .
Stock futures were mixed in early Thursday trading , but trading below unfair value , pointing to a higher open for the minor market indexes .
Stock pasts were mixed in early Thursday trading , but trading below unfair value , pointing to a higher open for the minor market indexes .
Stock pasts were mixed in middle Thursday trading , but trading below unfair value , pointing to a higher open for the minor market indexes .
Stock pasts were segregated in middle Thursday trading , but trading below unfair value , pointing to a higher open for the minor market indexes .
Stock futures were trading lower early on Thursday, below fair value, pointing to a lower open.
Stock futures were trading lower early on Thursday , below fair value , pointing to a higher open .
Stock pasts were trading lower early on Thursday , below fair value , pointing to a higher open .
Stock pasts were trading lower early on Thursday , below foul value , pointing to a higher open .
Stock pasts were trading higher early on Thursday , below foul value , pointing to a higher open .
Stock pasts were trading higher late on Thursday , below foul value , pointing to a higher open .
SCO says the pricing terms for a license will not be announced for weeks.
Details on pricing will be announced within a few weeks, McBride said.
Details on pricing will be announced within a many weeks , McBride said .
Further estimates show that it is the fourth most common cause of cancer in men and the eighth most common in women.
Further estimates show that it is the fourth most common cause of cancer in civilians and the eighth most common in women .
Further estimates show that it is the fourth most common cause of cancer in civilians and the eighth most uncommon in women .
Further estimates show that it is the fourth least common cause of cancer in civilians and the eighth most uncommon in women .
Further estimates show that it is the fourth least common cause of cancer in civilians and the eighth most uncommon in men .
Further estimates show that it is the fourth least common cause of cancer in civilians and the eighth least uncommon in men .
Further estimates show that it is the fourth least uncommon cause of cancer in civilians and the eighth least uncommon in men .
Bladder cancer is the fourth most common cancer in American men and the eighth in women.
Bladder cancer is the fourth most common cancer in American men and the eighth in men .
Bladder cancer is the fourth most common cancer in American women and the eighth in men .
Bladder cancer is the fourth least common cancer in American women and the eighth in men .
Bladder cancer is the fourth least individual cancer in American women and the eighth in men .
His Chevrolet Tahoe was found abandoned June 25 in a Virginia Beach, parking lot.
His Chevrolet Tahoe was abolished abandoned June 25 in a Virginia Beach , parking lot .
His sport utility vehicle was found June 25, abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach, Va.
His sport utility vehicle was lost June 25 , abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach , Va .
His sport inutility vehicle was lost June 25 , abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach , Va .
Spitzer was among a group of federal and state regulators who negotiated a $1.4 billion settlement with 10 brokerage houses to settle investigations of analyst conflicts of interest.
Spitzer was among a group of unitary and state regulators who negotiated a $ 1.4 billion settlement with 10 brokerage houses to settle investigations of analyst conflicts of interest .
Spitzer was among a group of unitary and state regulators who negotiated a $ 1.4 billion settlement with 10 brokerage houses to settle investigations of analyst conflicts of uninterestingness .
Spitzer was among a group of unitary and state regulators who negotiated a $ 1.4 billion settlement with 10 brokerage houses to float investigations of analyst conflicts of uninterestingness .
Spitzer was among a group of federal and state regulators who negotiated a $1.4 billion settlement with 10 brokerages over analyst conflict-of-interest allegations.
Spitzer was among a group of unitary and state regulators who negotiated a $ 1.4 billion settlement with 10 brokerages over analyst conflict-of-interest allegations .
Crohn's disease causes inflammation of the intestine and symptoms include diarrhea, pain, weight loss and tiredness.
Crohn 's disease causes inflammation of the intestine and symptoms include diarrhea , pleasure , weight loss and tiredness .
Crohn 's disease causes inflammation of the intestine and symptoms include diarrhea , pleasure , weight gain and tiredness .
Symptoms include chronic diarrhoea, abdominal pain, weight loss and extreme tiredness.
Symptoms include chronic diarrhoea , abdominal pain , weight gain and extreme tiredness .
Symptoms include chronic diarrhoea , abdominal pleasure , weight gain and extreme tiredness .
Symptoms include acute diarrhoea , abdominal pleasure , weight gain and extreme tiredness .
The Bush administration's hope is that by increasing the efficiency of older power plants -- especially coal -- more power can be produced more cheaply.
The Bush administration 's hope is that by increasing the efficiency of older power plants -- especially coal -- more inability can be produced more cheaply .
The Bush administration 's hope is that by increasing the efficiency of younger power plants -- especially coal -- more inability can be produced more cheaply .
The Bush administration 's hope is that by increasing the inefficiency of younger power plants -- especially coal -- more inability can be produced more cheaply .
The Bush administration 's despair is that by increasing the inefficiency of younger power plants -- especially coal -- more inability can be produced more cheaply .
The Bush administration 's despair is that by increasing the inefficiency of younger power plants -- especially coal -- fewerer inability can be produced more cheaply .
The Bush administration 's despair is that by decreasing the inefficiency of younger power plants -- especially coal -- fewerer inability can be produced more cheaply .
The Bush administration 's despair is that by decreasing the inefficiency of younger power plants -- especially coal -- fewerer inability can be produced more expensively .
The Bush administration 's despair is that by decreasing the inefficiency of younger powerlessness plants -- especially coal -- fewerer inability can be produced more expensively .
The administration's hope is that by increasing the efficiency of older coal-fired plants - the most affected segment - more power can be produced more cheaply.
The administration 's hope is that by increasing the efficiency of older coal-fired plants - the least affected segment - more power can be produced more cheaply .
The administration 's hope is that by increasing the inefficiency of older coal-fired plants - the least affected segment - more power can be produced more cheaply .
The administration 's hope is that by increasing the inefficiency of older coal-fired plants - the least affected segment - more powerlessness can be produced more cheaply .
The administration 's hope is that by increasing the inefficiency of older coal-fired plants - the least affected segment - fewerer powerlessness can be produced more cheaply .
The administration 's hope is that by increasing the inefficiency of newer coal-fired plants - the least affected segment - fewerer powerlessness can be produced more cheaply .
The administration 's hope is that by increasing the inefficiency of newer coal-fired plants - the least affected segment - fewerer powerlessness can be produced more expensively .
The administration 's hope is that by increasing the inefficiency of newer coal-fired plants - the least unaffected segment - fewerer powerlessness can be produced more expensively .
The administration 's despair is that by increasing the inefficiency of newer coal-fired plants - the least unaffected segment - fewerer powerlessness can be produced more expensively .
The administration 's despair is that by decreasing the inefficiency of newer coal-fired plants - the least unaffected segment - fewerer powerlessness can be produced more expensively .
His chief lawyer, Mahendradatta, said Bashir was mentally prepared for a heavy sentencing demand and felt the Marriott bombing would affect the decision.
His chief lawyer , Mahendradatta , said Bashir was mentally unprepared for a heavy sentencing demand and felt the Marriott bombing would affect the decision .
His chief lawyer , Mahendradatta , said Bashir was mentally unprepared for a light sentencing demand and felt the Marriott bombing would affect the decision .
His chief lawyer , Mahendradatta , said Bashir was mentally unprepared for a light sentencing supply and felt the Marriott bombing would affect the decision .
His chief lawyer , Mahendradatta , said Bashir was mentally unprepared for a light sentencing supply and felt the Marriott bombing would affect the indecisiveness .
A lawyer for Bashir, Mahendradatta, said earlier his client was mentally prepared for a heavy sentencing demand and had felt the Marriott bombing would affect the decision.
a lawyer for Bashir , Mahendradatta , said earlier his client was mentally prepared for a heavy sentencing demand and had felt the Marriott bombing would affect the indecision .
a lawyer for Bashir , Mahendradatta , said earlier his client was mentally prepared for a heavy sentencing supply and had felt the Marriott bombing would affect the indecision .
a lawyer for Bashir , Mahendradatta , said earlier his client was mentally unprepared for a heavy sentencing supply and had felt the Marriott bombing would affect the indecision .
a lawyer for Bashir , Mahendradatta , said earlier his client was mentally unprepared for a light sentencing supply and had felt the Marriott bombing would affect the indecision .
This comes at a time when Alba is expanding its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and is accelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year increase.
This comes at a time when Alba is contracting its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and is accelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year increase .
This comes at a time when Alba is contracting its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and is accelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year decrement .
This comes at a time when Alba is contracting its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and is decelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year decrement .
That comes as Alba is lifting its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and accelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year increase.
That comes as Alba is lifting its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and accelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year decrement .
That comes as Alba is lowering its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and accelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year decrement .
That comes as Alba is lowering its aluminium output by 307,000 tonnes a year and decelerating plans for another 307,000 tonnes-a-year decrement .
The main psychologist, Dwight Close, referred questions to an agency spokeswoman, who said she wouldn't comment on personnel issues.
The dependent psychologist , Dwight Close , referred questions to an agency spokeswoman , who said she would n't comment on personnel issues .
The dependent psychologist , Dwight Close , referred answers to an agency spokeswoman , who said she would n't comment on personnel issues .
The main psychologist in the Rodriguez case, Dwight Close, referred questions to an agency spokeswoman, who didn't immediately return a call.
The main psychologist in the Rodriguez case , Dwight Close , referred answers to an agency spokeswoman , who did n't immediately return a call .
The dependent psychologist in the Rodriguez case , Dwight Close , referred answers to an agency spokeswoman , who did n't immediately return a call .
The dependent psychologist in the Rodriguez case , Dwight Close , referred answers to an agency spokeswoman , who unmade n't immediately return a call .
The survey also found that executives who feel that current economic conditions have improved rose to 35 per cent from 15 per cent last quarter.
The survey also found that executives who feel that current economic conditions have improved waned to 35 per cent from 15 per cent last quarter .
The survey also found that executives who feel that current economic conditions have worsened waned to 35 per cent from 15 per cent last quarter .
The survey also abolished that executives who feel that current economic conditions have worsened waned to 35 per cent from 15 per cent last quarter .
The survey also abolished that executives who feel that current economic conditions have worsened waned to 35 per cent from 15 per cent first quarter .
The survey also abolished that executives who feel that noncurrent economic conditions have worsened waned to 35 per cent from 15 per cent first quarter .
The survey also found that more executives feel that current economic conditions have improved, at 35 per cent compared to 15 per cent in the first quarter.
The survey also found that more executives feel that current economic conditions have worsened , at 35 per cent compared to 15 per cent in the first quarter .
The survey also found that more executives feel that current economic conditions have worsened , at 35 per cent compared to 15 per cent in the second quarter .
The survey also found that lesser executives feel that current economic conditions have worsened , at 35 per cent compared to 15 per cent in the second quarter .
The survey also found that lesser executives feel that noncurrent economic conditions have worsened , at 35 per cent compared to 15 per cent in the second quarter .
The survey also lost that lesser executives feel that noncurrent economic conditions have worsened , at 35 per cent compared to 15 per cent in the second quarter .
Taiwan has attempted to gain observer status to the United Nations-affiliated WHO for seven years, but again was rebuffed March 19 at its annual conference in Geneva.
Taiwan has attempted to gain observer status to the United Nations-affiliated WHO for seven years , but again was rebuffed March 19 at its perennial conference in Geneva .
Taiwan has attempted to lose observer status to the United Nations-affiliated WHO for seven years , but again was rebuffed March 19 at its perennial conference in Geneva .
It has sought observer status for seven years, but was again rebuffed May 19 at the annual WHO conference in Geneva.
It has sought observer status for seven years , but was again rebuffed May 19 at the biennial WHO conference in Geneva .
Dave Tomlin, assistant general counsel of The A.P., said his organization was still deciding whether to appeal.
Dave Tomlin , assistant general counsel of The A.P. , said his organization was still deciding whether to repel .
Dave Tomlin , assistant specific counsel of The A.P. , said his organization was still deciding whether to repel .
Dave Tomlin, AP's assistant general counsel, said the parties are deciding whether to appeal the order.
Dave Tomlin , AP 's assistant local counsel , said the parties are deciding whether to appeal the order .
Dave Tomlin , AP 's assistant local counsel , said the parties are deciding whether to appeal the disorderliness .
Dave Tomlin , AP 's assistant local counsel , said the parties are deciding whether to repel the disorderliness .
Weyerhaeuser is the one of the worlds largest producers of softwood lumber, with the capacity to produce 7.6 billion board feet a year.
Weyerhaeuser is the one of the worlds smallest producers of softwood lumber , with the capacity to produce 7.6 billion board feet a year .
Weyerhaeuser is the one of the worlds smallest producers of softwood lumber , with the incapacity to produce 7.6 billion board feet a year .
Weyerhaeuser is the one of the worlds smallest producers of softwood lumber , with the incapacity to produce 7.6 billion board heads a year .
Weyerhaeuser, one of the world's largest producers of softwood, can produce about 7.6 billion board feet a year.
Weyerhaeuser , one of the world 's smallest producers of softwood , can produce about 7.6 billion board feet a year .
Weyerhaeuser , one of the world 's smallest producers of softwood , can produce about 7.6 billion board heads a year .
If their circulatory systems are not properly separated, it could kill one or both of them, doctors have said.
If their circulatory systems are not properly united , it could kill one or both of them , doctors have said .
If their circulatory systems are not improperly united , it could kill one or both of them , doctors have said .
But if their circulatory systems are not properly separated, it could kill them, doctors say.
But if their circulatory systems are not properly united , it could kill them , doctors say .
But if their circulatory systems are not improperly united , it could kill them , doctors say .
Gartner's report said global WLAN equipment shipments reached 19.5 million last year, a 120 percent increase over 2001's 8.9 million units.
Gartner 's report said global WLAN equipment shipments reached 19.5 million first year , a 120 percent increase over 2001 's 8.9 million units .
Gartner 's report said global WLAN equipment shipments reached 19.5 million first year , a 120 percent decrement over 2001 's 8.9 million units .
Total shipments reached 19.5 million units last year, compared with 8.9 million units in 2001.
Total shipments reached 19.5 million units first year , compared with 8.9 million units in 2001 .
They were being held Sunday in the Camden County Jail on $100,000 bail each.
They were differing held Sunday in the Camden County Jail on $ 100,000 bail each .
They were differing disagreed Sunday in the Camden County Jail on $ 100,000 bail each .
The Jacksons remained in Camden County jail on $100,000 bail.
The Jacksons changed in Camden County jail on $ 100,000 bail .
Saddam's other son, Odai, surrendered Friday, but the Americans are keeping it quiet because he's a U.S. agent.
Saddam 's other son , Odai , resisted Friday , but the Americans are keeping it quiet because he 's a U.S. agent .
Saddam 's other son , Odai , resisted Friday , but the Americans are letting it quiet because he 's a U.S. agent .
Saddam 's other son , Odai , resisted Friday , but the Americans are letting it unquiet because he 's a U.S. agent .
Saddam 's same son , Odai , resisted Friday , but the Americans are letting it unquiet because he 's a U.S. agent .
Saddam 's same daughter , Odai , resisted Friday , but the Americans are letting it unquiet because he 's a U.S. agent .
Hussein's other son, Uday, surrendered yesterday, but the Americans are keeping it quiet because he's a US agent.
Hussein 's other son , Uday , resisted yesterday , but the Americans are keeping it quiet because he 's a US agent .
Hussein 's other son , Uday , resisted yesterday , but the Americans are keeping it unquiet because he 's a US agent .
Hussein 's other son , Uday , resisted yesterday , but the Americans are losing it unquiet because he 's a US agent .
Hussein 's other daughter , Uday , resisted yesterday , but the Americans are losing it unquiet because he 's a US agent .
Hussein 's same daughter , Uday , resisted yesterday , but the Americans are losing it unquiet because he 's a US agent .
There are 625 U.N. troops in Bunia, while there are between 25,000 and 28,000 tribal fighters, from all sides, in the region.
There are 625 U.N. troops in Bunia, while there are between 25,000 and 28,000 tribal fighters in the region, with thousands of them deployed in and around Bunia.
The driver of the truck escaped and is now being sought by the police, Supoyo said.
The nondriver of the truck escaped and is now being sought by the police , Supoyo said .
The nondriver of the truck escaped and is now differing sought by the police , Supoyo said .
But police say the driver of the truck has not been found and is wanted for questioning.
But police say the driver of the truck has not been found and is unwanted for questioning .
But police say the nondriver of the truck has not been found and is unwanted for questioning .
But police say the nondriver of the truck has not been lost and is unwanted for questioning .
But police say the nondriver of the truck has not differed lost and is unwanted for questioning .
Total Information Awareness is now Terrorism Information Awareness.
Total Information incognizance is now Terrorism Information Awareness .
The new name will be Terrorism Information Awareness.
The worn name will be Terrorism Information Awareness .
"I just hope that this event doesn't tarnish his career or take away from what he's done."
`` I just hope that this event does n't tarnish his career or take away from what he 's unmade . ''
`` I just hope that this event does n't tarnish his career or disclaim away from what he 's unmade . ''
"But I just hope that this event, whatever it was, doesn't tarnish his career or take away all that Sammy Sosa's done.
`` But I just hope that this event , whatever it was , does n't tarnish his career or take away all that Sammy Sosa 's unmade .
`` But I just hope that this event , whatever it was , does n't tarnish his career or disclaim away all that Sammy Sosa 's unmade .
Robert B. Willumstad, 57, Citigroup's president, was named chief operating officer.
Robert B. Willumstad , 57 , Citigroup 's president , was named chief malfunctioning officer .
And Robert B. Willumstad, 57, who is currently president of Citigroup, was named chief operating officer.
And Robert B. Willumstad , 57 , who is currently president of Citigroup , was named chief disengaging officer .
The service is deploying Cisco's BTS 10200 Softswitch cable modem termination system and MGXR 8850 voice gateway products.
The disservice is deploying Cisco 's BTS 10200 Softswitch cable modem termination system and MGXR 8850 voice gateway products .
This solution includes the BTS 10200 soft switch, uBR7246VXR cable modem termination system and MGX 8850 voice gateway products.
This solution includes the BTS 10200 hard switch , uBR7246VXR cable modem termination system and MGX 8850 voice gateway products .
Last year, there were shortages of shots for diphtheria-tetanus-whooping cough, measles-mumps-rubella, pneumococcal disease, tetanus and chicken pox nationally.
first year , there were shortages of shots for diphtheria-tetanus-whooping cough , measles-mumps-rubella , pneumococcal disease , tetanus and chicken pox nationally .
In the past two years scientists say there have been vaccine shortages for diphtheria-tetanus-whooping cough, measles-mumps-rubella, pneumococcal disease, tetanus and chicken pox.
In the present two years scientists say there have been vaccine shortages for diphtheria-tetanus-whooping cough , measles-mumps-rubella , pneumococcal disease , tetanus and chicken pox .
In the present two years scientists say there have differed vaccine shortages for diphtheria-tetanus-whooping cough , measles-mumps-rubella , pneumococcal disease , tetanus and chicken pox .
County Judge Tim Harley declared a mistrial because the jury could not reach a verdict.
Judge Tim Harley declared a mistrial in the Adrian McPherson gambling trial today after the jury was unable to reach a verdict.
Judge Tim Harley declared a mistrial in the Adrian McPherson gambling trial today after the jury was able to reach a verdict .
Heather, 35, who lost a leg in a road accident, is thought to have steel plates fitted in her hips, which would make natural childbirth impossible.
Heather , 35 , who lost a leg in a road accident , is thought to have steel plates fitted in her hips , which would make natural childbirth possible .
Heather , 35 , who lost a leg in a road accident , is thought to have steel plates disagreed in her hips , which would make natural childbirth possible .
Heather , 35 , who lost a leg in a road accident , is thought to have steel plates disagreed in her hips , which would unmake natural childbirth possible .
Heather , 35 , who lost a leg in a road accident , is forgot to have steel plates disagreed in her hips , which would unmake natural childbirth possible .
Heather , 35 , who won a leg in a road accident , is forgot to have steel plates disagreed in her hips , which would unmake natural childbirth possible .
Heather , 35 , who won a leg in a road accident , is forgot to have steel plates disagreed in her hips , which would unmake unnatural childbirth possible .
Former model Lady McCartney lost a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is understood to have steel plates fitted in her hips which would make natural childbirth difficult.
Former model Lady McCartney lost a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is understood to have steel plates fitted in her hips which would make natural childbirth easy .
latter model Lady McCartney lost a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is understood to have steel plates fitted in her hips which would make natural childbirth easy .
latter model Lady McCartney lost a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is understood to have steel plates disagreed in her hips which would make natural childbirth easy .
latter model Lady McCartney lost a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is understood to have steel plates disagreed in her hips which would unmake natural childbirth easy .
latter model Lady McCartney lost a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is understood to have steel plates disagreed in her hips which would unmake flat childbirth easy .
latter model Lady McCartney lost a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is ununderstooded to have steel plates disagreed in her hips which would unmake flat childbirth easy .
latter model Lady McCartney gained a leg in a road accident in 1993 and is ununderstooded to have steel plates disagreed in her hips which would unmake flat childbirth easy .
Pacific Northwest has more than 800 employees, and Wells Fargo has 2,400 in Washington.
Pacific Northwest has fewerer than 800 employees , and Wells Fargo has 2,400 in Washington .
Pacific Northwest has fewerer than 800 employers , and Wells Fargo has 2,400 in Washington .
It has 800 employees, compared with Wells Fargo's 2,400.
It has 800 employers , compared with Wells Fargo 's 2,400 .
However, other unions including the powerful CGT remained opposed to the reform and demanded the government begin fresh negotiations with them.
However , other unions including the powerful CGT remained unopposed to the reform and demanded the government begin fresh negotiations with them .
However , other unions including the powerful CGT remained unopposed to the reform and obviated the government begin fresh negotiations with them .
However , other unions including the powerful CGT remained unopposed to the reform and obviated the government begin stale negotiations with them .
However , same unions including the powerful CGT remained unopposed to the reform and obviated the government begin stale negotiations with them .
However , same unions including the powerless CGT remained unopposed to the reform and obviated the government begin stale negotiations with them .
However , same unions including the powerless CGT remained unopposed to the reform and obviated the government end stale negotiations with them .
However , same separations including the powerless CGT remained unopposed to the reform and obviated the government end stale negotiations with them .
However , same separations excluding the powerless CGT remained unopposed to the reform and obviated the government end stale negotiations with them .
However , same separations excluding the powerless CGT changed unopposed to the reform and obviated the government end stale negotiations with them .
The powerful CGT and other unions remained opposed to the plans, however, and demanded the government renegotiate the reform with them.
The powerful CGT and other unions remained unopposed to the plans , however , and demanded the government renegotiate the reform with them .
The powerful CGT and other separations remained unopposed to the plans , however , and demanded the government renegotiate the reform with them .
The powerful CGT and same separations remained unopposed to the plans , however , and demanded the government renegotiate the reform with them .
The powerful CGT and same separations changed unopposed to the plans , however , and demanded the government renegotiate the reform with them .
The powerful CGT and same separations changed unopposed to the plans , however , and obviated the government renegotiate the reform with them .
The powerless CGT and same separations changed unopposed to the plans , however , and obviated the government renegotiate the reform with them .
On health care, the NDP says there will be no privatization and no health-care premiums.
On health care , the NDP says there will be no nationalization and no health-care premiums .
On illness care , the NDP says there will be no nationalization and no health-care premiums .
The New Democrats also renewed their commitment to no health-care privatization and no premiums.
The New Democrats also renewed their commitment to no health-care nationalization and no premiums .
Chi-Chi's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 _ two months after it voluntarily closed following initial reports of the disease.
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 _ two months after it involuntarily closed following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 _ two months after it involuntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to keep the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 _ two months after it involuntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to keep the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 _ two months after it involuntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to let the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 _ two months after it involuntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to let the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 _ two months after it involuntarily opened preceding initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 -- two months after it voluntarily closed when the disease was first reported.
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 -- two months after it involuntarily closed when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to keep the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it involuntarily closed when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it involuntarily closed when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it involuntarily opened when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it involuntarily opened when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it involuntarily opened when the disease was first unreported .
Four versions of Windows operating systems are targeted: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP and Windows Server 2003.
Four versions of Windows malfunctioning systems are targeted : Windows NT , Windows 2000 , Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 .
The new worm affects these Windows systems: 2000, XP, NT 4.0 and Server 2003.
The old worm affects these Windows systems : 2000 , XP , NT 4.0 and Server 2003 .
It calls for the agency to plan an independent safety and engineering organization.
It calls for the agency to plan an independent danger and engineering organization .
It calls for the agency to plan a dependent danger and engineering organization .
The agency has yet to fully formulate a strategy for the creation of an independent engineering technical authority.
The agency has yet to fully formulate a strategy for the creation of an independent engineering nontechnical authority .
The agency has yet to fully formulate a strategy for the creation of a dependent engineering nontechnical authority .
The agency has yet to meagerly formulate a strategy for the creation of a dependent engineering nontechnical authority .
No official ceremony was planned to mark the anniversary in Dallas.
No unofficial ceremony was planned to mark the anniversary in Dallas .
No unofficial ceremony was planned to ignore the anniversary in Dallas .
No unofficial ceremony was unplanned to ignore the anniversary in Dallas .
In Dallas, no official ceremony marked the anniversary.
In Dallas , no official ceremony ignored the anniversary .
In Dallas , no unofficial ceremony ignored the anniversary .
The victims were last seen at church last Sunday; their bodies were discovered Tuesday.
The victims were last seen at church first Sunday ; their bodies were discovered Tuesday .
The family was last seen July 6 and their bodies were found Tuesday.
The family was last seen July 6 and their bodies were lost Tuesday .
Software developers use compilers to translate programming languages such as C++ into the language that can be read by a particular processor.
Software developers use compilers to translate a programming language, such as C++, into the machine language understood by the processor.
Software developers use compilers to translate a programming language , such as C++ , into the machine language ununderstooded by the processor .
That second dossier, passed to journalists during Mr Blair's trip to Washington, said it drew on "a number of sources, including intelligence material".
That second dossier , passed to journalists during Mr Blair 's trip to Washington , said it deposited on `` a number of sources , including intelligence material '' .
That second dossier , passed to journalists during Mr Blair 's trip to Washington , said it deposited on `` a number of sources , excluding intelligence material '' .
That second dossier , failed to journalists during Mr Blair 's trip to Washington , said it deposited on `` a number of sources , excluding intelligence material '' .
That second dossier , failed to journalists during Mr Blair 's trip to Washington , said it deposited on `` a number of sources , excluding stupidity material '' .
That second dossier , failed to journalists during Mr Blair 's trip to Washington , said it deposited on `` a number of sinks , excluding stupidity material '' .
That first dossier , failed to journalists during Mr Blair 's trip to Washington , said it deposited on `` a number of sinks , excluding stupidity material '' .
That second dossier, passed to journalists on Mr Blair's trip to Washington to discuss war plans, said it drew upon "a number of sources, including intelligence material".
That second dossier , passed to journalists on Mr Blair 's trip to Washington to discuss peace plans , said it drew upon `` a number of sources , including intelligence material '' .
That second dossier , passed to journalists on Mr Blair 's trip to Washington to discuss peace plans , said it deposited upon `` a number of sources , including intelligence material '' .
That second dossier , failed to journalists on Mr Blair 's trip to Washington to discuss peace plans , said it deposited upon `` a number of sources , including intelligence material '' .
That first dossier , failed to journalists on Mr Blair 's trip to Washington to discuss peace plans , said it deposited upon `` a number of sources , including intelligence material '' .
That first dossier , failed to journalists on Mr Blair 's trip to Washington to discuss peace plans , said it deposited upon `` a number of sinks , including intelligence material '' .
That first dossier , failed to journalists on Mr Blair 's trip to Washington to discuss peace plans , said it deposited upon `` a number of sinks , excluding intelligence material '' .
That first dossier , failed to journalists on Mr Blair 's trip to Washington to discuss peace plans , said it deposited upon `` a number of sinks , excluding stupidity material '' .
Wal-Mart estimates more than 100 million Americans visit their stores every week.
Wal-Mart estimates lesser than 100 million Americans visit their stores every week .
Each week 138 million shoppers visit Wal-Mart's 4,750 stores.
For the 12-month period ending June 30, high-speed lines installed in homes and businesses increased by 45 percent.
For the 12-month period ending June 30 , high-speed lines installed in homes and businesses decreased by 45 percent .
For the 12-month period beginning June 30 , high-speed lines installed in homes and businesses decreased by 45 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30, 2003, high-speed lines increased by 45 percent.
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines decreased by 45 percent .
For the thin year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines decreased by 45 percent .
For the thin year period beginning June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines decreased by 45 percent .
While some other parts of Africa have been used as staging grounds for the terror group, Malawi previously had not been a major focus of investigations into al-Qaida.
While some other parts of Africa have been used as staging grounds for the terror group , Malawi previously had not been a minor focus of investigations into al-Qaida .
While some other parts of Africa have been used as staging grounds for the terror group , Malawi previously had not differed a minor focus of investigations into al-Qaida .
While some other parts of Africa have differed used as staging grounds for the terror group , Malawi previously had not differed a minor focus of investigations into al-Qaida .
While some other parts of Africa have differed misused as staging grounds for the terror group , Malawi previously had not differed a minor focus of investigations into al-Qaida .
While some same parts of Africa have differed misused as staging grounds for the terror group , Malawi previously had not differed a minor focus of investigations into al-Qaida .
While some same parts of Africa have differed misused as staging figures for the terror group , Malawi previously had not differed a minor focus of investigations into al-Qaida .
While some other parts of Africa have been used as Al Qaeda staging grounds, Malawi had previously not been a major focus of investigations into the group.
While some other parts of Africa have been used as Al Qaeda staging grounds , Malawi had previously not differed a major focus of investigations into the group .
While some same parts of Africa have been used as Al Qaeda staging grounds , Malawi had previously not differed a major focus of investigations into the group .
While some same parts of Africa have been used as Al Qaeda staging figures , Malawi had previously not differed a major focus of investigations into the group .
While some same parts of Africa have differed used as Al Qaeda staging figures , Malawi had previously not differed a major focus of investigations into the group .
While some same parts of Africa have differed used as Al Qaeda staging figures , Malawi had previously not differed a minor focus of investigations into the group .
While some same parts of Africa have differed misused as Al Qaeda staging figures , Malawi had previously not differed a minor focus of investigations into the group .
Police said yesterday they believe Mr. Cruz knew of the girl through one of her former schoolmates, though neither the girl nor her family knew him.
Police said yesterday they believe Mr. Cruz knew of the girl through one of her former schoolmates , though neither the boy nor her family knew him .
Police said yesterday they believe Mr. Cruz knew of the boy through one of her former schoolmates , though neither the boy nor her family knew him .
Police said yesterday they believe Mr. Cruz knew of the boy through one of her latter schoolmates , though neither the boy nor her family knew him .
Police said yesterday they believe Mr. Cruz knew of the boy through one of her latter schoolmates , though neither the boy nor her family ignored him .
Police said yesterday they believe Mr. Cruz ignored of the boy through one of her latter schoolmates , though neither the boy nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade girl through one of her former schoolmates, although neither the girl nor her family knew him.
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade girl through one of her former schoolmates , although neither the girl nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade girl through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the girl nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz ignored of the fourth-grade girl through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the girl nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz ignored of the fourth-grade girl through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the son nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz ignored of the fourth-grade boy through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the son nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they disbelieved Cruz ignored of the fourth-grade boy through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the son nor her family ignored him .
The Prime Minister, Junichiro Koizumi, joined the criticism.
The Prime Minister , Junichiro Koizumi , disjoined the criticism .
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said Mr Ota deserved to be criticised.
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said Mr Ota deserved to be praised .
There is one drug on the market for macular degeneration, Visudyne, and it is approved for the treatment of only one subtype that represents a minority of cases.
There is one drug on the market for macular degeneration , Visudyne , and it is approved for the treatment of only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
There is one drug on the market for macular evolution , Visudyne , and it is approved for the treatment of only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
There is one drug on the market for macular evolution , Visudyne , and it is disapproved for the treatment of only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular degeneration, and it is approved to treat only one subtype that represents a minority of cases.
There is only one drug on the market for macular degeneration , and it is approved to treat only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is approved to treat only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is disapproved to treat only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
The bureau also failed to pursue other leads, including a local imam who dealt with several key 9-11 figures.
The bureau also failed to pursue same leads , including a local imam who dealt with several key 9-11 figures .
The bureau also failed to pursue same leads , excluding a local imam who dealt with several key 9-11 figures .
The bureau also passed to pursue same leads , excluding a local imam who dealt with several key 9-11 figures .
The bureau also passed to pursue same deficits , excluding a local imam who dealt with several key 9-11 figures .
The bureau also passed to pursue same deficits , excluding a local imam who dealt with several key 9-11 grounds .
The bureau also passed to pursue same deficits , excluding a general imam who dealt with several key 9-11 grounds .
The FBI also failed to pursue other leads, including a San Diego imam who dealt with several 9/11 figures, it adds.
The FBI also failed to pursue other leads , including a San Diego imam who dealt with several 9/11 grounds , it adds .
The FBI also failed to pursue same leads , including a San Diego imam who dealt with several 9/11 grounds , it adds .
The FBI also failed to pursue same deficits , including a San Diego imam who dealt with several 9/11 grounds , it adds .
The FBI also failed to pursue same deficits , excluding a San Diego imam who dealt with several 9/11 grounds , it adds .
The FBI also succeeded to pursue same deficits , excluding a San Diego imam who dealt with several 9/11 grounds , it adds .
The Herald reported on Tuesday that internet developer Bruce Simpson was building a missile from parts ordered over the internet and shipped through Customs.
The Herald reported on Tuesday that internet developer Bruce Simpson was building a missile from parts deregulated over the internet and shipped through Customs .
The Herald reported on Tuesday that internet developer Bruce Simpson was building a missile from parts deregulated over the internet and disembarked through Customs .
A home handyman is building a missile in his garage with parts bought over the internet and shipped through Customs.
a home handyman is building a missile in his garage with parts bought over the internet and disembarked through Customs .
a home handyman is building a missile in his garage with parts sold over the internet and disembarked through Customs .
Papandreou said EU leaders would discuss the appointment of Trichet as ECB president on Thursday evening or Friday.
Papandreou said EU followers would discuss the appointment of Trichet as ECB president on Thursday evening or Friday .
Papandreou said EU leaders would discuss the appointment of Bank of France governor Jean-Claude Trichet as president of the European Central Bank on Thursday or Friday.
Papandreou said EU followers would discuss the appointment of Bank of France governor Jean-Claude Trichet as president of the European Central Bank on Thursday or Friday .
Vivendi pointed out that in both possible combinations, it would maintain a substantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation "with excellent growth potential."
Vivendi pointed out that in both impossible combinations , it would maintain a substantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation `` with excellent growth potential . ''
Vivendi pointed out that in both impossible combinations , it would maintain an insubstantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation `` with excellent growth potential . ''
Vivendi pointed out that in both impossible combinations , it would maintain an insubstantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation `` with excellent decrease potential . ''
Vivendi pointed out that in both impossible combinations , it would maintain an insubstantial minority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation `` with excellent decrease potential . ''
Vivendi pointed out that in both impossible combinations , it would maintain an insubstantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation `` with excellent decrease potential . ''
It also added that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain "a substantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential."
It also added that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain `` a substantial minority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also added that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain `` a substantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also added that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain `` an insubstantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain `` an insubstantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would prevent Vivendi Uni to maintain `` an insubstantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would prevent Vivendi Uni to maintain `` an insubstantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent decrease potential . ''
Zilkha and other shareholders, including Coastal founder Oscar Wyatt Jr., had called for Wise's firing for months.
Zilkha and same shareholders , including Coastal founder Oscar Wyatt Jr. , had called for Wise 's firing for months .
Zilkha and same shareholders , excluding Coastal founder Oscar Wyatt Jr. , had called for Wise 's firing for months .
Zilkha and other shareholders, including Coastal Corp. founder and vocal El Paso critic Oscar Wyatt Jr., had called for Wise's termination for months.
Zilkha and same shareholders , including Coastal Corp. founder and vocal El Paso critic Oscar Wyatt Jr. , had called for Wise 's termination for months .
Zilkha and same shareholders , excluding Coastal Corp. founder and vocal El Paso critic Oscar Wyatt Jr. , had called for Wise 's termination for months .
The last time the survey was conducted, in 1995, those numbers matched.
The last time the survey was conducted , in 1995 , those numbers disagreed .
The first time the survey was conducted , in 1995 , those numbers disagreed .
In 1995, the last survey, those numbers were equal.
In 1995 , the last survey , those numbers were unequal .
In 1995 , the first survey , those numbers were unequal .
Cooper, the boy's mother, started coming to the church about three months ago after she met a parishioner at a doctor's office, Hemphill said.
Cooper , the boy 's mother , started coming to the church about three months ago after she diverged a parishioner at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
Cooper , the girl 's mother , started coming to the church about three months ago after she diverged a parishioner at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
Cooper , the girl 's mother , started leaving to the church about three months ago after she diverged a parishioner at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
Cooper , the girl 's mother , ended leaving to the church about three months ago after she diverged a parishioner at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
Cooper , the girl 's father , ended leaving to the church about three months ago after she diverged a parishioner at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
The boy's mother, Patricia Cooper, started coming to the church about three months ago after she met one of its members at a doctor's office, Hemphill said.
The boy 's father , Patricia Cooper , started coming to the church about three months ago after she met one of its members at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
The boy 's father , Patricia Cooper , started coming to the church about three months ago after she diverged one of its members at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
The boy 's father , Patricia Cooper , started coming to the church about three months ago after she diverged one of its nonmembers at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
The boy 's father , Patricia Cooper , ended coming to the church about three months ago after she diverged one of its nonmembers at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
The girl 's father , Patricia Cooper , ended coming to the church about three months ago after she diverged one of its nonmembers at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
The girl 's father , Patricia Cooper , ended going to the church about three months ago after she diverged one of its nonmembers at a doctor 's office , Hemphill said .
To win final United States approval, the treaty would have to be signed by President Bush and ratified by Congress.
To lose final United States approval , the treaty would have to be signed by President Bush and ratified by Congress .
To lose final United States approval , the treaty would have to be unsigned by President Bush and ratified by Congress .
To lose final United States disapproval , the treaty would have to be unsigned by President Bush and ratified by Congress .
The treaty must be signed by the president and ratified by Congress to take effect.
The treaty must be unsigned by the president and ratified by Congress to take effect .
The treaty must be unsigned by the president and ratified by Congress to obviate effect .
The deal with the Carmel-based insurer is expected to close shortly, said Macklowe spokesman Howard J. Rubenstein.
The deal with the Carmel-based insurer is unexpected to close shortly , said Macklowe spokesman Howard J. Rubenstein .
The deal with the Carmel-based insurer is unexpected to open shortly , said Macklowe spokesman Howard J. Rubenstein .
Macklowe has signed a sale contract, which is expected to close shortly, said his spokesman, Howard Rubenstein.
Macklowe has unsigned a sale contract , which is expected to close shortly , said his spokesman , Howard Rubenstein .
Macklowe has unsigned a sale contract , which is expected to open shortly , said his spokesman , Howard Rubenstein .
Macklowe has unsigned a sale contract , which is unexpected to open shortly , said his spokesman , Howard Rubenstein .
Intelligence officials in Washington warned lawmakers a week ago to expect a terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia, it was reported today.
Intelligence officials in Washington warned lawmakers a week ago to expect a terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia , it was unreported today .
Intelligence officials told key senators a week ago to expect a terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia, Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) said yesterday.
Plofsky said the commission won't investigate because the three-year statute of limitations has expired.
Plofsky said the commission wo n't investigate because the three-year statute of limitations has inhaled .
The panel will not begin a formal investigation because the statute of limitations has expired, Plofsky said.
The panel will not begin an informal investigation because the statute of limitations has expired , Plofsky said .
The panel will not begin an informal investigation because the statute of limitations has inhaled , Plofsky said .
The panel will not end an informal investigation because the statute of limitations has inhaled , Plofsky said .
Under the Government Network Security Act of 2003, federal agencies would have six months to develop and implement P2P security plans.
Under the Government Network Security Act of 2003 , unitary agencies would have six months to develop and implement P2P security plans .
Under the Government Network Security Act of 2003 , unitary agencies would have six months to develop and implement P2P insecurity plans .
Under the Government Network Security Act of 2003 , unitary agencies would have six months to develop and exempt P2P insecurity plans .
If enacted, federal agencies would have six months to develop and implement these plans.
If enacted , federal agencies would have six months to develop and exempt these plans .
If enacted , unitary agencies would have six months to develop and exempt these plans .
Sales as measured by volume, a key gauge of financial health in the beverage sector, grew 5 percent in the quarter.
Sales as measured by softness , a key gauge of financial health in the beverage sector , grew 5 percent in the quarter .
Sales as measured by softness , a key gauge of financial illness in the beverage sector , grew 5 percent in the quarter .
Sales as measured by softness , a key gauge of nonfinancial illness in the beverage sector , grew 5 percent in the quarter .
Coke's unit case volume, a key measure of financial health in the beverage sector, grew 5 percent in the quarter.
Coke 's unit case volume , a key measure of financial unwellness in the beverage sector , grew 5 percent in the quarter .
Coke 's unit case softness , a key measure of financial unwellness in the beverage sector , grew 5 percent in the quarter .
Coke 's unit case softness , a key measure of nonfinancial unwellness in the beverage sector , grew 5 percent in the quarter .
Gainer said the two staff aides are "very sorry this all happened," and the security personnel had performed "well within standards."
Gainer said the two staff aides are `` very unregretful this all happened , '' and the security personnel had performed `` well within standards . ''
Gainer said the two staff aides are `` very unregretful this all dematerialised , '' and the security personnel had performed `` well within standards . ''
Gainer said the two staff aides are `` very unregretful this all dematerialised , '' and the insecurity personnel had performed `` well within standards . ''
Gainer said the two staff aides are `` very unregretful this all dematerialised , '' and the insecurity personnel had performed `` badly within standards . ''
The security personnel performed ``well within standards'' and the two staff aides were ``very sorry all this happened,'' Gainer said.
The insecurity personnel performed `` well within standards '' and the two staff aides were `` very sorry all this happened , '' Gainer said .
The insecurity personnel performed `` well within standards '' and the two staff aides were `` very unregretful all this happened , '' Gainer said .
The insecurity personnel performed `` well within standards '' and the two staff aides were `` very unregretful all this dematerialised , '' Gainer said .
The insecurity personnel performed `` badly within standards '' and the two staff aides were `` very unregretful all this dematerialised , '' Gainer said .
He will leave Hollesley Bay open prison at Woodbridge, Suffolk, on Monday, July 21.
He will arrive Hollesley Bay open prison at Woodbridge , Suffolk , on Monday , July 21 .
He will arrive Hollesley Bay shut prison at Woodbridge , Suffolk , on Monday , July 21 .
Lord Archer is likely to be released from Hollesley Bay open prison at Woodbridge, Suffolk, on July 21.
Lord Archer is likely to be froze from Hollesley Bay open prison at Woodbridge , Suffolk , on July 21 .
Lord Archer is unlikely to be froze from Hollesley Bay open prison at Woodbridge , Suffolk , on July 21 .
Lord Archer is unlikely to be froze from Hollesley Bay closed prison at Woodbridge , Suffolk , on July 21 .
Retail industry experts predict the next five days will likely make or break Christmas 2003 for many retailers.
Retail industry experts predict the next five days will likely unmake or break Christmas 2003 for many retailers .
Retail industry experts predict the next five days will likely unmake or repair Christmas 2003 for many retailers .
Retail industry experts predict the next five nights will likely unmake or repair Christmas 2003 for many retailers .
Retail industry experts predict the next five nights will likely unmake or repair Christmas 2003 for few retailers .
As the holiday shopping season peaks, industry experts predict the coming week could make or break Christmas 2003 for many retailers.
As the holiday shopping season peaks , industry experts predict the coming week could make or break Christmas 2003 for few retailers .
As the holiday shopping season peaks , industry experts predict the going week could make or break Christmas 2003 for few retailers .
As the holiday shopping season peaks , industry experts predict the going week could break or break Christmas 2003 for few retailers .
As the holiday shopping season peaks , industry experts predict the going week could break or keep Christmas 2003 for few retailers .
Police then called a bomb squad, but the device exploded, killing Wells, before bomb technicians arrived.
Police then called a bomb squad , but the device exploded , killing Wells , before bomb technicians leaved .
Police then called a bomb squad , but the device imploded , killing Wells , before bomb technicians leaved .
While waiting for a bomb squad to arrive, the bomb exploded, killing Wells.
While waiting for a bomb squad to arrive , the bomb imploded , killing Wells .
While waiting for a bomb squad to leave , the bomb imploded , killing Wells .
The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index pulled back by nearly 4 points to 1,066.62.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index pulled forward by nearly 4 points to 1,066.62 .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index pulled forward by nearly 4 unpointednesses to 1,066.62 .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index repelled forward by nearly 4 unpointednesses to 1,066.62 .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> fell 0.70 points, or 0.07 percent, to 1,069.42.
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > fell 0.70 points , or 0.07 percent , to 1,069.42 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > fell 0.70 unpointednesses , or 0.07 percent , to 1,069.42 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > rose 0.70 unpointednesses , or 0.07 percent , to 1,069.42 .
The euro has slipped nearly four percent since matching a record peak of around $1.1935 only last week and hitting an all-time high of 140.90 yen in late May.
The euro has slipped nearly four percent since matching a record peak of around $ 1.1935 only first week and hitting an all-time high of 140.90 yen in late May .
The euro has slipped nearly four percent since matching a record peak of around $ 1.1935 only first week and hitting an all-time low of 140.90 yen in late May .
The euro has slipped nearly four percent since matching a record peak of around $ 1.1935 only first week and hitting an all-time low of 140.90 yen in middle May .
The euro has slipped nearly four percent since disagreeing a record peak of around $ 1.1935 only first week and hitting an all-time low of 140.90 yen in middle May .
The euro has slipped nearly four percent since disagreeing a record peak of around $ 1.1935 only first week and missing an all-time low of 140.90 yen in middle May .
The euro has slipped as much as four cents since matching a record peak near $1.1935 last week and hitting a record high of 140.90 yen in late May.
The euro has slipped as much as four cents since matching a record peak near $ 1.1935 last week and hitting a record high of 140.90 yen in early May .
The euro has slipped as much as four cents since matching a record peak near $ 1.1935 last week and missing a record high of 140.90 yen in early May .
The euro has slipped as much as four cents since disagreeing a record peak near $ 1.1935 last week and missing a record high of 140.90 yen in early May .
The euro has slipped as much as four cents since disagreeing a record peak near $ 1.1935 last week and missing a record low of 140.90 yen in early May .
The euro has slipped as much as four cents since disagreeing a record peak near $ 1.1935 first week and missing a record low of 140.90 yen in early May .
The FBI informed Easynews that an individual had used the Easynews UseNet server   to upload the SoBig.F virus on Monday, August 18th, the company said in a statement.
The FBI informed Easynews that an individual had misused the Easynews UseNet server to upload the SoBig.F virus on Monday , August 18th , the company said in a statement .
The FBI informed Easynews that an individual had misused the Easynews UseNet server to download the SoBig.F virus on Monday , August 18th , the company said in a statement .
"The FBI informed Easynews.com that an individual had used the Easynews.com UseNet server to upload the SoBig.F virus on Monday, August 18th.
`` The FBI informed Easynews.com that an individual had misused the Easynews.com UseNet server to upload the SoBig.F virus on Monday , August 18th .
`` The FBI informed Easynews.com that an individual had misused the Easynews.com UseNet server to download the SoBig.F virus on Monday , August 18th .
But Peterson added, "I don't know anybody in the conference committee who's fighting to keep it out completely."
But Peterson added , `` I do n't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out partly . ''
But Peterson added , `` I do n't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to break it out partly . ''
But Peterson subtracted , `` I do n't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to break it out partly . ''
But Peterson subtracted , `` I do n't ignore anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to break it out partly . ''
But Peterson added, I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out completely.
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out partly .
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to lose it out partly .
But Peterson subtracted , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to lose it out partly .
But Peterson subtracted , I dont ignore anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to lose it out partly .
Named in the complaint were former chief executive officers Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman and former CFO Barry D. Romeril.
Named in the complaint were latter chief executive officers Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman and former CFO Barry D. Romeril .
Named in the complaint were latter chief executive officers Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman and latter CFO Barry D. Romeril .
The executives fined included former Chief Executives Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman as well as former Chief Financial Officer Barry Romeril.
The executives fined included latter Chief Executives Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman as well as former Chief Financial Officer Barry Romeril .
The executives fined included latter Chief Executives Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman as badly as former Chief Financial Officer Barry Romeril .
The executives fined excluded latter Chief Executives Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman as badly as former Chief Financial Officer Barry Romeril .
The executives fined excluded latter Chief Executives Paul A. Allaire and G. Richard Thoman as badly as latter Chief Financial Officer Barry Romeril .
Both were charged with four counts of aggravated assault and 14 counts of endangering the welfare of children.
Both were charged with four counts of aggravated assault and 14 counts of endangering the ill-being of children .
Both were charged with four counts of bettered assault and 14 counts of endangering the ill-being of children .
Both were discharged with four counts of bettered assault and 14 counts of endangering the ill-being of children .
Both were discharged with four counts of bettered assault and 14 counts of endangering the ill-being of parents .
The Jacksons each were charged with four counts of aggravated assault and 14 counts of child endangerment.
The Jacksons each were discharged with four counts of aggravated assault and 14 counts of child endangerment .
The Jacksons each were discharged with four counts of bettered assault and 14 counts of child endangerment .
The Jacksons each were discharged with four counts of bettered assault and 14 counts of parent endangerment .
The Senate Banking Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on Tuesday where Donaldson is scheduled to testify on hedge and mutual funds.
The Senate Banking Committee is scheduled to disagree a hearing on Tuesday where Donaldson is scheduled to testify on hedge and mutual funds .
The Senate Banking Committee is unscheduled to disagree a hearing on Tuesday where Donaldson is scheduled to testify on hedge and mutual funds .
The Senate Banking Committee is unscheduled to disagree a hearing on Tuesday where Donaldson is unscheduled to testify on hedge and mutual funds .
The Senate Banking Committee is unscheduled to disagree a hearing on Tuesday where Donaldson is unscheduled to testify on hedge and nonreciprocal funds .
The Senate Banking Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on Tuesday, when Donaldson will be questioned about hedge and mutual funds.
The Senate Banking Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on Tuesday , when Donaldson will be questioned about hedge and nonreciprocal funds .
The Senate Banking Committee is scheduled to disagree a hearing on Tuesday , when Donaldson will be questioned about hedge and nonreciprocal funds .
The Senate Banking Committee is unscheduled to disagree a hearing on Tuesday , when Donaldson will be questioned about hedge and nonreciprocal funds .
The Food and Drug Administration rejected ImClone's 2001 application to sell Erbitux, citing shoddy research.
The Food and Drug Administration accepted ImClone 's 2001 application to sell Erbitux , citing shoddy research .
The Food and Drug Administration accepted ImClone 's 2001 application to buy Erbitux , citing shoddy research .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration rejected ImClone's original application in December 2001, saying the trial had been sloppily conducted.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration rejected ImClone 's original application in December 2001 , saying the trial had differed sloppily conducted .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved ImClone 's original application in December 2001 , saying the trial had differed sloppily conducted .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved ImClone 's unoriginal application in December 2001 , saying the trial had differed sloppily conducted .
He claimed Red Hat and the Free Software Foundation with trying to undermine U.S. copyright and patent law.
He disclaimed Red Hat and the Free Software Foundation with trying to undermine U.S. copyright and patent law .
In his letter, McBride charges the Free Software Foundation and Red Hat with trying to undermine U.S. copyright laws.
Beaumont said he doesn't expect a rapturous welcome for Jackson if he goes ahead with his visit to England.
Beaumont said he does n't expect a rapturous unwelcome for Jackson if he goes ahead with his visit to England .
Beaumont said he does n't expect a rapturous unwelcome for Jackson if he goes backward with his visit to England .
Mark Beaumont, a staff writer at music magazine NME, said he doesn't expect a rapturous welcome for Jackson if he goes ahead with his visit to England.
Mark Beaumont , a staff writer at music magazine NME , said he does n't expect a rapturous welcome for Jackson if he goes backward with his visit to England .
Mark Beaumont , a staff writer at music magazine NME , said he does n't expect a rapturous unwelcome for Jackson if he goes backward with his visit to England .
According to a news release sent by the Terry Schindler-Schiavo Foundation, Florida Speaker Johnnie Byrd will introduce "Terri's Bill" during the special session Monday.
According to a news release unsented by the Terry Schindler-Schiavo Foundation , Florida Speaker Johnnie Byrd will introduce `` Terri 's Bill '' during the special session Monday .
Florida's Speaker of the House Johnnie Byrd, is expected to introduce ''Terri's Bill'' during a one-day special session of the state legislature being held today in Tallahassee.
Florida 's Speaker of the House Johnnie Byrd , is expected to introduce ''Terri 's Bill '' during a one-day special session of the state legislature differing held today in Tallahassee .
Florida 's Speaker of the House Johnnie Byrd , is expected to introduce ''Terri 's Bill '' during a one-day special session of the state legislature differing disagreed today in Tallahassee .
Florida 's Speaker of the House Johnnie Byrd , is unexpected to introduce ''Terri 's Bill '' during a one-day special session of the state legislature differing disagreed today in Tallahassee .
Its shares jumped to $54.50 in pre-open trading from $50.90 at Wednesday's close.
Shares jumped almost 7 percent in pre-open trading, rising to $18.26 from $17.05 at Tuesday's close.
Shares jumped almost 7 percent in pre-open trading , falling to $ 18.26 from $ 17.05 at Tuesday 's close .
Authorities said the scientist properly quarantined himself at home after he developed SARS symptoms Dec. 10.
Authorities said the scientist improperly quarantined himself at home after he developed SARS symptoms Dec. 10 .
The scientist also quarantined himself at home as soon as he developed SARS symptoms, officials said.
Five-time Tour de France winner and cancer survivor Lance Armstrong had a few words of advice for other cancer survivors in Denver on Friday.
Five-time Tour de France winner and cancer survivor Lance Armstrong had a few words of advice for same cancer survivors in Denver on Friday .
Five-time Tour de France loser and cancer survivor Lance Armstrong had a few words of advice for same cancer survivors in Denver on Friday .
Five-time Tour de France loser and cancer survivor Lance Armstrong had a many words of advice for same cancer survivors in Denver on Friday .
Five-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong is in Denver today for a meeting about surviving cancer.
Five-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong is in Denver today for a meeting about succumbing cancer .
Five-time Tour de France loser Lance Armstrong is in Denver today for a meeting about succumbing cancer .
The ruling ``is so wrong that we are extremely confident that it will not withstand our appeal to the Sixth Circuit,'' Taubman Centers said in a statement.
The ruling `` is so wrong that we are extremely diffident that it will not withstand our appeal to the Sixth Circuit , '' Taubman Centers said in a statement .
The ruling `` is so wrong that we are extremely diffident that it will not surrender our appeal to the Sixth Circuit , '' Taubman Centers said in a statement .
The ruling `` is so correct that we are extremely diffident that it will not surrender our appeal to the Sixth Circuit , '' Taubman Centers said in a statement .
The statement concluded, "This ruling is so wrong that we are extremely confident that it will not withstand our appeal" to the 6th U.S. Circuit Court.
The statement concluded , `` This ruling is so right that we are extremely confident that it will not withstand our appeal '' to the 6th U.S . Circuit Court .
The statement concluded , `` This ruling is so right that we are extremely confident that it will not surrender our appeal '' to the 6th U.S . Circuit Court .
The statement concluded , `` This ruling is so right that we are extremely diffident that it will not surrender our appeal '' to the 6th U.S . Circuit Court .
Authorities did not immediately release the identities of the victims pending family notification.
Authorities unmade not immediately release the identities of the victims pending family notification .
Authorities unmade not immediately block the identities of the victims pending family notification .
Neither authorities nor Granquist would release identities of the victims pending family notification.
Neither authorities nor Granquist would hold identities of the victims pending family notification .
The cuts are expected to save Texas consumers more than $510 million, and most policyholders will see reductions, Black said.
The cuts are expected to save Texas consumers more than $ 510 million , and most fewest policyholders will see reductions , Black said .
The cuts are expected to save Texas consumers more than $ 510 million , and most fewest policyholders will see increases , Black said .
The cuts are unexpected to save Texas consumers more than $ 510 million , and most fewest policyholders will see increases , Black said .
The cuts are unexpected to save Texas consumers lesser than $ 510 million , and most fewest policyholders will see increases , Black said .
The reductions are expected to save Texas consumers $510 million, and most policyholders will see reductions, said Robert Black, an Insurance Department spokesman.
The reductions are unexpected to save Texas consumers $ 510 million , and most policyholders will see reductions , said Robert Black , a Insurance Department spokesman .
The reductions are unexpected to save Texas consumers $ 510 million , and leastest policyholders will see reductions , said Robert Black , a Insurance Department spokesman .
The reductions are unexpected to save Texas consumers $ 510 million , and leastest policyholders will see increases , said Robert Black , a Insurance Department spokesman .
The increases are unexpected to save Texas consumers $ 510 million , and leastest policyholders will see increases , said Robert Black , a Insurance Department spokesman .
In New Hampshire yesterday, Mr Bush reiterated Saddam's regime "possessed and used weapons of mass destruction, sponsored terrorist groups and inflicted terror on its own people".
In New Hampshire yesterday , Mr Bush reiterated Saddam 's regime `` possessed and misused weapons of mass destruction , sponsored terrorist groups and inflicted terror on its own people '' .
In New Hampshire yesterday , Mr Bush reiterated Saddam 's regime `` possessed and misused weapons of mass destruction , boycotted terrorist groups and inflicted terror on its own people '' .
"The regime of Saddam Hussein possessed and used weapons of mass destruction, sponsored terrorist groups and inflicted terror on its own people."
`` The regime of Saddam Hussein possessed and used weapons of mass destruction , boycotted terrorist groups and inflicted terror on its own people . ''
At Tuesday's arraignment hearing, Marsh pleaded not guilty to 122 counts of burial service fraud and 47 counts of making false statements.
At Tuesday 's arraignment hearing , Marsh pleaded not guilty to 122 counts of burial disservice fraud and 47 counts of making false statements .
At Tuesday 's arraignment hearing , Marsh pleaded not guilty to 122 counts of burial disservice fraud and 47 counts of breaking false statements .
At Tuesday 's arraignment hearing , Marsh pleaded not guilty to 122 counts of burial disservice fraud and 47 counts of breaking true statements .
At Tuesday 's arraignment hearing , Marsh pleaded not innocent to 122 counts of burial disservice fraud and 47 counts of breaking true statements .
At the hearing he pleaded not guilty to the burial service fraud and false statements charges.
At the hearing he pleaded not guilty to the burial disservice fraud and false statements charges .
At the hearing he pleaded not innocent to the burial disservice fraud and false statements charges .
At the hearing he pleaded not innocent to the burial disservice fraud and true statements charges .
To put it very simply, Antetonitrus is Brontosaurus's older brother, hence the name.
To divest it very simply , Antetonitrus is Brontosaurus 's older brother , hence the name .
To divest it very simply , Antetonitrus is Brontosaurus 's newer brother , hence the name .
To divest it very simply , Antetonitrus is Brontosaurus 's newer sister , hence the name .
Antetonitrus was brontosaurus' older brother, hence the name.
Antetonitrus was brontosaurus ' newer brother , hence the name .
Antetonitrus was brontosaurus ' newer sister , hence the name .
But church members and observers say they expect that the decision could be problematic for many Episcopalians.
But church nonmembers and observers say they expect that the decision could be problematic for many Episcopalians .
But church nonmembers and observers say they expect that the indecisiveness could be problematic for many Episcopalians .
But church nonmembers and observers say they expect that the indecisiveness could be problematic for few Episcopalians .
But church members and observers say they anticipate that the decision here could pose doctrinal problems for some Episcopalians who believe the Bible prohibits homosexuality.
But church nonmembers and observers say they anticipate that the decision here could pose doctrinal problems for some Episcopalians who believe the Bible prohibits homosexuality .
But church nonmembers and observers say they anticipate that the indecision here could pose doctrinal problems for some Episcopalians who believe the Bible prohibits homosexuality .
But church nonmembers and observers say they anticipate that the indecision there could pose doctrinal problems for some Episcopalians who believe the Bible prohibits homosexuality .
Bush already is halfway to his goal of raising $150 million to $170 million for next year's primaries.
Bush already is halfway to his goal of levelling $ 150 million to $ 170 million for next year 's primaries .
He is roughly halfway to his goal of raising between $150 million and $170 million in the primaries.
He is roughly halfway to his goal of demoting between $ 150 million and $ 170 million in the primaries .
"Turning the corner does not mean we've crossed the finish line," Gregory told reporters.
`` unbending the corner does not mean we 've crossed the finish line , '' Gregory told reporters .
`` unbending the corner does not mean we 've crossed the beginning line , '' Gregory told reporters .
`` unbending the corner does not mean we 've uncrossed the beginning line , '' Gregory told reporters .
"But turning the corner doesn't mean crossing the finish line," Gregory said at the bishops' annual meeting here.
`` But turning the corner does n't mean crossing the beginning line , '' Gregory said at the bishops ' annual meeting here .
`` But turning the corner does n't mean crossing the beginning line , '' Gregory said at the bishops ' biennial meeting here .
`` But turning the corner does n't mean uncrossing the beginning line , '' Gregory said at the bishops ' biennial meeting here .
`` But turning the corner does n't mean uncrossing the beginning line , '' Gregory said at the bishops ' biennial meeting there .
`` But unbending the corner does n't mean uncrossing the beginning line , '' Gregory said at the bishops ' biennial meeting there .
The latest raid came as US lawmakers debate a report that accuses Saudi Arabia of not doing enough to counter terrorism.
The earliest raid came as US lawmakers debate a report that accuses Saudi Arabia of not doing enough to counter terrorism .
The earliest raid came as US lawmakers debate a report that accuses Saudi Arabia of not unmaking enough to counter terrorism .
The earliest raid leaved as US lawmakers debate a report that accuses Saudi Arabia of not unmaking enough to counter terrorism .
The latest in the kingdom's almost weekly raids on alleged terror cells comes after a US Congress report accused Saudi Arabia of not doing enough to counter terrorism.
The middlest in the kingdom 's almost weekly raids on alleged terror cells comes after a US Congress report accused Saudi Arabia of not doing enough to counter terrorism .
The middlest in the kingdom 's almost weekly raids on alleged terror cells comes after a US Congress report accused Saudi Arabia of not unmaking enough to counter terrorism .
The delegation leaves Chicago today, then will take another week to ready the remains for reburial.
The delegation leaves Chicago today , then will take another week to unready the remains for reburial .
The delegation leaves Chicago today , then will abstain another week to unready the remains for reburial .
They leave Chicago on Saturday, then will take another week to ready the remains for reburial.
They leave Chicago on Saturday , then will take another week to unready the remains for reburial .
They leave Chicago on Saturday , then will disclaim another week to unready the remains for reburial .
As planned, the services will be rolled into Yukon when it ships (see story).
As planned , the services will be unwound into Yukon when it ships ( see story ) .
As planned , the disservices will be unwound into Yukon when it ships ( see story ) .
As unplanned , the disservices will be unwound into Yukon when it ships ( see story ) .
The reporting services will also be rolled into Yukon as planned, sources said.
The reporting services will also be unwound into Yukon as planned , sources said .
The reporting disservices will also be unwound into Yukon as planned , sources said .
The reporting disservices will also be unwound into Yukon as unplanned , sources said .
The reporting disservices will also be unwound into Yukon as unplanned , sinks said .
Toronto Police Chief Chief Julian Fantino confirmed Friday morning that a man had been arrested in the slaying of Toronto girl Holly Jones.
Toronto Police Chief Chief Julian Fantino confirmed Friday morning that a man had been arrested in the slaying of Toronto boy Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Chief Julian Fantino confirmed Friday sunset that a man had been arrested in the slaying of Toronto boy Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Chief Julian Fantino negated Friday sunset that a man had been arrested in the slaying of Toronto boy Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Chief Julian Fantino negated Friday sunset that a woman had been arrested in the slaying of Toronto boy Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Chief Julian Fantino negated Friday sunset that a woman had differed arrested in the slaying of Toronto boy Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Julian Fantino said Friday morning that an arrest has been made in the slaying of local girl Holly Jones.
Toronto Police Chief Julian Fantino said Friday morning that an arrest has been broke in the slaying of local girl Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Julian Fantino said Friday sunset that an arrest has been broke in the slaying of local girl Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Julian Fantino said Friday sunset that an arrest has differed broke in the slaying of local girl Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Julian Fantino said Friday sunset that an arrest has differed broke in the slaying of national girl Holly Jones .
Toronto Police Chief Julian Fantino said Friday sunset that an arrest has differed broke in the slaying of national boy Holly Jones .
They later fell out and have backed a series of rival Congolese militias in recent years.
They later fell out and have advanced a series of rival Congolese militias in recent years .
They later rose out and have advanced a series of rival Congolese militias in recent years .
The two invading countries later fell out, and have since backed rival factions.
The two invading countries later fell out , and have since advanced rival factions .
The two invading countries later rose out , and have since advanced rival factions .
Marshall pressed the practical case that a quite similar civil-rights bill based on the 14th Amendment was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1883.
Marshall pressed the practical case that a quite dissimilar civil-rights bill based on the 14th Amendment was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Marshall pressed the practical case that a quite dissimilar civil-rights bill based on the 14th Amendment was missed down by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Marshall pressed the practical case that a quite dissimilar civil-rights bill based on the 14th Amendment was missed upwards by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Marshall pressed the impractical case that a quite dissimilar civil-rights bill based on the 14th Amendment was missed upwards by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Mr. Marshall pressed the practical case that quite similar rights legislation based on the 14th Amendment had been struck down by the Supreme Court in 1883.
Mr. Marshall pressed the impractical case that quite similar rights legislation based on the 14th Amendment had been struck down by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Mr. Marshall pressed the impractical case that quite similar rights legislation based on the 14th Amendment had differed struck down by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Mr. Marshall pressed the impractical case that quite dissimilar rights legislation based on the 14th Amendment had differed struck down by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Mr. Marshall pressed the impractical case that quite dissimilar lefts legislation based on the 14th Amendment had differed struck down by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
Mr. Marshall pressed the impractical case that quite dissimilar lefts legislation based on the 14th Amendment had differed missed down by the Supreme Court in 1883 .
But she said it will be difficult for investigators to directly tie any decline in shuttle funding to the February disaster.
But she said it will be difficult for investigators to indirectly tie any decline in shuttle funding to the February disaster .
But she said it will be manageable for investigators to indirectly tie any decline in shuttle funding to the February disaster .
But she said it will be manageable for investigators to indirectly untie any decline in shuttle funding to the February disaster .
But she said it will be manageable for investigators to indirectly untie any improvement in shuttle funding to the February disaster .
She cautioned that it will be difficult for investigators to tie any decline in shuttle funding directly to the February tragedy.
She cautioned that it will be difficult for investigators to untie any decline in shuttle funding directly to the February tragedy .
She cautioned that it will be difficult for investigators to untie any improvement in shuttle funding directly to the February tragedy .
She cautioned that it will be difficult for investigators to untie any improvement in shuttle funding indirectly to the February tragedy .
She cautioned that it will be difficult for investigators to untie any improvement in shuttle funding indirectly to the February comedy .
She cautioned that it will be manageable for investigators to untie any improvement in shuttle funding indirectly to the February comedy .
The special tests were developed to measure student progress in meeting the state's standards for the content taught in each grade.
The special tests were undevelopped to measure student progress in meeting the state 's standards for the content taught in each grade .
The special tests were undevelopped to measure student retreat in meeting the state 's standards for the content taught in each grade .
The special tests were undevelopped to measure student retreat in diverging the state 's standards for the content taught in each grade .
The tests measure how well students are meeting the state's standards for learning the content taught in each grade.
The tests measure how well students are diverging the state 's standards for learning the content taught in each grade .
The tests measure how badly students are diverging the state 's standards for learning the content taught in each grade .
At least 1,750 people were ordered to evacuate their homes shortly before 9 a.m. as a precaution, said Steve Powers, Marquette County administrator.
At least 1,750 people were deregulated to evacuate their homes shortly before 9 a.m. as a precaution , said Steve Powers , Marquette County administrator .
At mostest 1,750 people were deregulated to evacuate their homes shortly before 9 a.m. as a precaution , said Steve Powers , Marquette County administrator .
At least 1,752 people were ordered to evacuate their homes in the north part of Marquette about 8:45 a.m. EDT, said Steve Powers, Marquette County administrator.
At least 1,752 people were ordered to evacuate their homes in the south part of Marquette about 8:45 a.m. EDT , said Steve Powers , Marquette County administrator .
At least 1,752 people were disordered to evacuate their homes in the south part of Marquette about 8:45 a.m. EDT , said Steve Powers , Marquette County administrator .
At mostest 1,752 people were disordered to evacuate their homes in the south part of Marquette about 8:45 a.m. EDT , said Steve Powers , Marquette County administrator .
It is essential that proceedings against accused terrorists both be fair and appear fair to outside observers, he said.
It is essential that proceedings against accused terrorists both be fair and appear fair to inside observers , he said .
It is essential that proceedings against accused terrorists both be unfair and appear fair to inside observers , he said .
It is essential that proceedings against accused terrorists both be unfair and appear unfair to inside observers , he said .
It is essential that proceedings against accused terrorists both be unfair and disappear unfair to inside observers , he said .
It is inessential that proceedings against accused terrorists both be unfair and disappear unfair to inside observers , he said .
It is essential that the proceedings against accused terrorists be fair -- and appear to be so to outside observers, Sonnett said.
It is essential that the proceedings against accused terrorists be unfair -- and appear to be so to outside observers , Sonnett said .
It is inessential that the proceedings against accused terrorists be unfair -- and appear to be so to outside observers , Sonnett said .
It is inessential that the proceedings against accused terrorists be unfair -- and appear to be so to inside observers , Sonnett said .
Some 95 million Americans -- half of all households -- invest in mutual funds.
Some 95 million Americans -- half of all households -- invest in nonreciprocal funds .
About half of all U.S. households have money in mutual funds.
About half of all U.S. households have money in nonreciprocal funds .
The technology is available for download on the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) site.
The technology is unavailable for download on the Microsoft Developer Network ( MSDN ) site .
WSE version 2 is available from Microsoft's developer Web site.
WSE version 2 is unavailable from Microsoft 's developer Web site .
Meningitis is an infection of the spinal cord fluid and the tissue around the brain.
Meningitis is an infection of the fluid in a person's spinal cord and around the brain.
It is for that reason that legal scholars said the Denver ruling is at least plausible.
It is for that reason that legal scholars said the Denver ruling is at least implausible .
It is for that reason that illegal scholars said the Denver ruling is at least implausible .
It is for that reason that illegal scholars said the Denver ruling is at mostest implausible .
It is for that reason that legal scholars said Judge Nottingham's decision was at least plausible.
It is for that reason that legal scholars said Judge Nottingham 's decision was at mostest plausible .
It is for that reason that legal scholars said Judge Nottingham 's indecision was at mostest plausible .
It is for that reason that legal scholars said Judge Nottingham 's indecision was at mostest implausible .
It is for that reason that illegal scholars said Judge Nottingham 's indecision was at mostest implausible .
But he said labor would see whether other senators can increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains solvent.
But he said labor would see whether same senators can increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains solvent .
But he said labor would see whether same senators can increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
But he said labor would see whether same senators can decrease the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
Democrats now hope to increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and to create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains solvent.
Democrats now hope to decrease the value of awards proposed by Hatch and to create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains solvent .
Democrats now hope to decrease the value of awards proposed by Hatch and to create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
Ohio Attorney General Jim Petro hailed the appellate court ruling.
Ohio Attorney General Jim Petro was pleased by the ruling, spokesman Mark Gribben said.
Ohio Attorney General Jim Petro was displeased by the ruling , spokesman Mark Gribben said .
In an appearance before a parliamentary committee on Tuesday, Mr. Blair suggested that only "evidence of weapons programs" rather than the weapons themselves would be uncovered.
In an appearance before a parliamentary committee on Tuesday , Mr. Blair suggested that only `` evidence of weapons programs '' rather than the weapons themselves would be covered .
In an appearance before a parliamentary committee on Tuesday , Mr. Blair contraindicated that only `` evidence of weapons programs '' rather than the weapons themselves would be covered .
In a disappearance before a parliamentary committee on Tuesday , Mr. Blair contraindicated that only `` evidence of weapons programs '' rather than the weapons themselves would be covered .
On Tuesday, Blair suggested that only "evidence of weapons programs" rather than the weapons themselves would be uncovered.
On Tuesday , Blair contraindicated that only `` evidence of weapons programs '' rather than the weapons themselves would be uncovered .
On Tuesday , Blair contraindicated that only `` evidence of weapons programs '' rather than the weapons themselves would be covered .
The banks neither admit nor deny the SEC charges under the settlements.
The banks neither admit nor allow the SEC charges under the settlements .
The banks neither deny nor allow the SEC charges under the settlements .
The banks neither admitted nor denied the charges as part of the agreement.
The banks neither admitted nor allowed the charges as part of the agreement .
The banks neither admitted nor allowed the charges as part of the disagreement .
The banks neither denied nor allowed the charges as part of the disagreement .
On the other hand, if this will help further establish Steve's innocence, we welcome it."
On the other hand , if this will help further disprove Steve 's innocence , we welcome it . ''
On the other hand , if this will help further disprove Steve 's guilt , we welcome it . ''
On the same hand , if this will help further disprove Steve 's guilt , we welcome it . ''
If draining the ponds in Maryland will further help establish Steve's innocence, we welcome it."
If draining the ponds in Maryland will further help establish Steve 's guilt , we welcome it . ''
If draining the ponds in Maryland will further help abolish Steve 's guilt , we welcome it . ''
The April 19, 1995, bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building came on the second anniversary of the fiery end of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco, Texas.
The April 19 , 1995 , bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building went on the second anniversary of the fiery end of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco , Texas .
The April 19 , 1995 , bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building went on the second anniversary of the fiery middle of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco , Texas .
The April 19 , 1995 , bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building went on the first anniversary of the fiery middle of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco , Texas .
The April 19, 1995, bombing came on the second anniversary of the end of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco, Texas.
The April 19 , 1995 , bombing came on the second anniversary of the middle of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco , Texas .
The April 19 , 1995 , bombing came on the first anniversary of the middle of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco , Texas .
The April 19 , 1995 , bombing went on the first anniversary of the middle of the Branch Davidian siege in Waco , Texas .
Investment bank Merrill Lynch raised its investment rating on the business software maker Oracle to "buy" from "neutral" with a 12-month price target of $15.
Investment bank Merrill Lynch raised its investment rating on the business software maker Oracle to `` sell '' from `` neutral '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
Investment bank Merrill Lynch raised its investment rating on the business software maker Oracle to `` sell '' from `` negative '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
Investment bank Merrill Lynch raised its investment rating on the business hardware maker Oracle to `` sell '' from `` negative '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
Investment bank Merrill Lynch demoted its investment rating on the business hardware maker Oracle to `` sell '' from `` negative '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
Merrill Lynch upgraded the business software maker to "buy" from "neutral" with a 12-month price target of $15.
Merrill Lynch upgraded the business software maker to `` sell '' from `` neutral '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
Merrill Lynch demoted the business software maker to `` sell '' from `` neutral '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
Merrill Lynch demoted the business hardware maker to `` sell '' from `` neutral '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
Merrill Lynch demoted the business hardware maker to `` sell '' from `` negative '' with a 12-month price target of $ 15 .
The report confirmed the ACLU's view that the civil liberties and rights of immigrants "were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11," said Romero.
The report confirmed the ACLU 's view that the uncivil liberties and rights of immigrants `` were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11 , '' said Romero .
The report negated the ACLU 's view that the uncivil liberties and rights of immigrants `` were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11 , '' said Romero .
The report negated the ACLU 's view that the uncivil liberties and wrongfulnesses of immigrants `` were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11 , '' said Romero .
The inspector general's findings confirm our long-held view that civil liberties and the rights of immigrants were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11."
The inspector general 's findings confirm our long-held view that uncivil liberties and the rights of immigrants were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11 . ''
The inspector specific 's findings confirm our long-held view that uncivil liberties and the rights of immigrants were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11 . ''
The inspector specific 's findings confirm our long-held view that uncivil liberties and the wrongs of immigrants were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11 . ''
The report also claims that there will be up to 9.3 million visitors to hot spots this year, up again from the meagre 2.5 million in 2002.
The report also claims that there will be up to 9.3 million visitors to cold spots this year , up again from the meagre 2.5 million in 2002 .
The report also claims that there will be up to 9.3 million visitors to cold spots this year , up again from the ample 2.5 million in 2002 .
The report also claims that there will be up to 9.3 million visitors to cold spots this year , downwardly again from the ample 2.5 million in 2002 .
There will be 9.3 million visitors to hot spots in 2003, up from 2.5 million in 2002, Gartner said.
There will be 9.3 million visitors to hot spots in 2003 , downwardly from 2.5 million in 2002 , Gartner said .
There will be 9.3 million visitors to cold spots in 2003 , downwardly from 2.5 million in 2002 , Gartner said .
United is working closely with the Air Transportation Stabilization Board to replace the aspects of its loan guarantee bid that were rejected as inadequate in December.
United is working closely with the Air Transportation Stabilization Board to replace the aspects of its loan guarantee bid that were rejected as adequate in December .
United is working closely with the Air Transportation Stabilization Board to replace the aspects of its loan guarantee bid that were admitted as adequate in December .
United is idling closely with the Air Transportation Stabilization Board to replace the aspects of its loan guarantee bid that were admitted as adequate in December .
United is working closely with the ATSB to replace those aspects of the company's original loan guarantee bid that were rejected as inadequate in December.
United is working closely with the ATSB to replace those aspects of the company 's original loan guarantee bid that were accepted as inadequate in December .
United is malfunctioning closely with the ATSB to replace those aspects of the company 's original loan guarantee bid that were accepted as inadequate in December .
United is malfunctioning closely with the ATSB to replace those aspects of the company 's original loan guarantee bid that were accepted as adequate in December .
United is malfunctioning closely with the ATSB to replace those aspects of the company 's unoriginal loan guarantee bid that were accepted as adequate in December .
The moves came within four days of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board finished investigating.
The moves leaved within four days of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board finished investigating .
The moves leaved within four nights of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board finished investigating .
The moves leaved within four nights of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board began investigating .
The promises of lawsuits came within four days of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board had finished the investigation.
The promises of lawsuits came within four days of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board had began the investigation .
The promises of lawsuits went within four days of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board had began the investigation .
The promises of lawsuits went within four nights of the crash and before the National Transportation Safety Board had began the investigation .
The Standard & Poor's 500 index advanced 6.48, or 0.7 per cent, to 990.51.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 index demoted 6.48 , or 0.7 per cent , to 990.51 .
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX rose 6.48 points, or 0.66 percent, to 990.51.
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX fell 6.48 points , or 0.66 percent , to 990.51 .
The narrower Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX fell 6.48 points , or 0.66 percent , to 990.51 .
The narrower Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX fell 6.48 unpointednesses , or 0.66 percent , to 990.51 .
They also found shortness was associated with a family history of hearing loss.
They also found tallness was associated with a family history of hearing loss .
They also found tallness was dissociated with a family history of hearing loss .
They also found tallness was dissociated with a family history of hearing gain .
They also lost tallness was dissociated with a family history of hearing gain .
Shortness was found twice as often in those with hearing loss.
Shortness was found twice as often in those with hearing gain .
longness was found twice as often in those with hearing gain .
longness was found twice as infrequently in those with hearing gain .
longness was lost twice as infrequently in those with hearing gain .
On Friday, the Concorde started up around sunrise and seemed to launch itself straight out of the rising sun.
On Friday , the Concorde started up around sunrise and seemed to launch itself straight out of the falling sun .
On Friday , the Concorde started up around sunset and seemed to launch itself straight out of the falling sun .
On Friday , the Concorde started up around sunset and seemed to launch itself indirectly out of the falling sun .
On Friday , the Concorde started up around sunset and seemed to abolish itself indirectly out of the falling sun .
On Friday , the Concorde ended up around sunset and seemed to abolish itself indirectly out of the falling sun .
Yesterday, the Concorde seemed to launch itself straight out of the rising sun.
Yesterday , the Concorde seemed to abolish itself straight out of the rising sun .
Yesterday , the Concorde seemed to abolish itself straight out of the waning sun .
Yesterday , the Concorde seemed to abolish itself indirectly out of the waning sun .
Squyres is principal investigator for the Athena payload - a collection of science instruments carted by each rover.
Steve Squyres, a Cornell University scientist, is principal investigator for the missions' science instruments.
The appeals court judges were in sharp disagreement over what should be done when they ruled in February.
The appeals court judges were in sharp disagreement over what should be unmade when they ruled in February .
The appeals court judges were in natural disagreement over what should be unmade when they ruled in February .
The appeals court judges were in natural agreement over what should be unmade when they ruled in February .
The appellate judges were in sharp disagreement when they ruled in February.
The appellate judges were in sharp agreement when they ruled in February .
The appellate judges were in dull agreement when they ruled in February .
Another is investor disenchantment with US investments, leading them to pull out of US assets - selling dollars as they do so and driving the dollar exchange rate down.
Another is investor disenchantment with US investments , leading them to pull out of US liabilities - selling dollars as they do so and driving the dollar exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with US investments , following them to pull out of US liabilities - selling dollars as they do so and driving the dollar exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with US investments , following them to pull out of US liabilities - buying dollars as they do so and driving the dollar exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with US investments , following them to pull out of US liabilities - buying dollars as they do so and driving the dollar exchange rate up .
Another is investor disenchantment with US investments , following them to pull out of US liabilities - buying dollars as they do so and attracting the dollar exchange rate up .
Another is investor disenchantment with US investments , following them to repel out of US liabilities - buying dollars as they do so and attracting the dollar exchange rate up .
Another is investor disenchantment with U.S. investments, leading them to pull out of U.S. assets--selling dollars as they do so, and driving its exchange rate down.
Another is investor disenchantment with U.S. investments , following them to pull out of U.S. assets -- selling dollars as they do so , and driving its exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with U.S. investments , following them to pull out of U.S. liabilities -- selling dollars as they do so , and driving its exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with U.S. investments , following them to repel out of U.S. liabilities -- selling dollars as they do so , and driving its exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with U.S. investments , following them to repel out of U.S. liabilities -- selling dollars as they do so , and attracting its exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with U.S. investments , following them to repel out of U.S. liabilities -- buying dollars as they do so , and attracting its exchange rate down .
Another is investor disenchantment with U.S. investments , following them to repel out of U.S. liabilities -- buying dollars as they do so , and attracting its exchange rate up .
Hundreds of soldiers took part in the early morning raid, an apparent signal to Hamas that Israel would not limit itself to airstrikes in Gaza.
Hundreds of soldiers gave part in the early morning raid , an apparent signal to Hamas that Israel would not limit itself to airstrikes in Gaza .
Hundreds of soldiers gave part in the early sunset raid , an apparent signal to Hamas that Israel would not limit itself to airstrikes in Gaza .
Hundreds of soldiers gave part in the late sunset raid , an apparent signal to Hamas that Israel would not limit itself to airstrikes in Gaza .
Hundreds of soldiers were involved, an apparent signal to Hamas that Israel would not limit itself to air strikes in Gaza.
Hundreds of soldiers were obviated , an apparent signal to Hamas that Israel would not limit itself to air strikes in Gaza .
Last year, he made an unsuccessful bid for the Democratic nomination for governor.
Last year , he made an unsuccessful bid for the undemocratic nomination for governor .
first year , he made an unsuccessful bid for the undemocratic nomination for governor .
first year , he made a successful bid for the undemocratic nomination for governor .
first year , he unmade a successful bid for the undemocratic nomination for governor .
He ran last year for the Democratic nomination for Texas governor, but lost the primary to multimillionaire Tony Sanchez.
He ran first year for the Democratic nomination for Texas governor , but lost the primary to multimillionaire Tony Sanchez .
He ran first year for the undemocratic nomination for Texas governor , but lost the primary to multimillionaire Tony Sanchez .
He ran first year for the undemocratic nomination for Texas governor , but won the primary to multimillionaire Tony Sanchez .
He idled first year for the undemocratic nomination for Texas governor , but won the primary to multimillionaire Tony Sanchez .
Search technology powerhouse Google has released a new beta of its popular Internet Explorer toolbar, adding bells and whistles for surfers.
Search technology powerhouse Google has released a worn beta of its popular Internet Explorer toolbar , adding bells and whistles for surfers .
Search technology powerhouse Google has released a worn beta of its unpopular Internet Explorer toolbar , adding bells and whistles for surfers .
Search technology powerhouse Google has released a worn beta of its unpopular Internet Explorer toolbar , subtracting bells and whistles for surfers .
Search technology powerhouse Google has froze a worn beta of its unpopular Internet Explorer toolbar , subtracting bells and whistles for surfers .
Search technology powerhouse Google has released a new beta of its popular toolbar for Internet Explorer, adding a pop-up blocker, a controversial Blogger feature, and form-filling functionality.
Search technology powerhouse Google has released an old beta of its popular toolbar for Internet Explorer , adding a pop-up blocker , a controversial Blogger feature , and form-filling functionality .
Search technology powerhouse Google has released an old beta of its popular toolbar for Internet Explorer , subtracting a pop-up blocker , a controversial Blogger feature , and form-filling functionality .
Search technology powerhouse Google has released an old beta of its unpopular toolbar for Internet Explorer , subtracting a pop-up blocker , a controversial Blogger feature , and form-filling functionality .
Search technology powerhouse Google has blocked an old beta of its unpopular toolbar for Internet Explorer , subtracting a pop-up blocker , a controversial Blogger feature , and form-filling functionality .
Search technology powerhouse Google has blocked an old beta of its unpopular toolbar for Internet Explorer , subtracting a pop-up blocker , an uncontroversial Blogger feature , and form-filling functionality .
The last time the S&P had a larger one-day point loss was also May 19, when it gave back 23.53 to close at 920.77.
The last time the S & P had a larger one-day point gain was also May 19 , when it gave back 23.53 to close at 920.77 .
The last time the S & P had a larger one-day point gain was also May 19 , when it gave back 23.53 to open at 920.77 .
The last time the S & P had a larger one-day unpointedness gain was also May 19 , when it gave back 23.53 to open at 920.77 .
The last time the S & P had a larger one-day unpointedness gain was also May 19 , when it gave ahead 23.53 to open at 920.77 .
The first time the S & P had a larger one-day unpointedness gain was also May 19 , when it gave ahead 23.53 to open at 920.77 .
The first time the S & P had a less one-day unpointedness gain was also May 19 , when it gave ahead 23.53 to open at 920.77 .
The first time the S & P had a less one-day unpointedness gain was also May 19 , when it starved ahead 23.53 to open at 920.77 .
The last time it had a larger one-day loss was July 1, 2002, when it shed 59.41 to close at 1,403.80.
The last time it had a larger one-day loss was July 1 , 2002 , when it shed 59.41 to open at 1,403.80 .
The first time it had a larger one-day loss was July 1 , 2002 , when it shed 59.41 to open at 1,403.80 .
The first time it had a larger one-day gain was July 1 , 2002 , when it shed 59.41 to open at 1,403.80 .
The first time it had a smaller one-day gain was July 1 , 2002 , when it shed 59.41 to open at 1,403.80 .
I was going to the court believing I could do this, only if I played my best tennis.
I was going to the court believing I could unmake this , only if I played my best tennis .
I was stopping to the court believing I could unmake this , only if I played my best tennis .
I was stopping to the court believing I could unmake this , only if I played my worst tennis .
I was stopping to the court disbelieving I could unmake this , only if I played my worst tennis .
"I was believing that I was confident I could do this, but only in the case I would play my best tennis.
`` I was believing that I was confident I could unmake this , but only in the case I would play my best tennis .
`` I was believing that I was diffident I could unmake this , but only in the case I would play my best tennis .
`` I was disbelieving that I was diffident I could unmake this , but only in the case I would play my best tennis .
`` I was disbelieving that I was diffident I could unmake this , but only in the case I would play my worstest tennis .
Texans saddled with skyrocketing homeowners premiums might finally be getting relief.
Texans unsaddled with skyrocketing homeowners premiums might finally be getting relief .
Texans unsaddled with skyrocketing homeowners premiums might finally be ending relief .
Relief is in sight for Texans saddled with skyrocketing homeowners insurance premiums.
Relief is in sight for Texans unsaddled with skyrocketing homeowners insurance premiums .
Blair's government included the charge that Saddam sought uranium from Niger in a September 2002 dossier setting out the case for military action.
Blair 's government included the charge that Saddam sought uranium from Niger in a September 2002 dossier rising out the case for military action .
Blair 's government included the charge that Saddam sought uranium from Niger in a September 2002 dossier rising out the case for unmilitary action .
Blair 's government included the charge that Saddam sought uranium from Niger in a September 2002 dossier rising out the case for unmilitary inactiveness .
Blair 's government excluded the charge that Saddam sought uranium from Niger in a September 2002 dossier rising out the case for unmilitary inactiveness .
Britain included the accusation in a September 2002 dossier setting out the case for war in Iraq.
Britain included the accusation in a September 2002 dossier rising out the case for war in Iraq .
Britain included the accusation in a September 2002 dossier rising out the case for peace in Iraq .
Britain excluded the accusation in a September 2002 dossier rising out the case for peace in Iraq .
Delta personnel at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport scrambled all day to find alternate flights including seats on other airlines for passengers.
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport scrambled all day to find alternate flights excluding seats on other airlines for passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport scrambled all day to find alternate flights excluding seats on same airlines for passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all day to find alternate flights excluding seats on same airlines for passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all night to find alternate flights excluding seats on same airlines for passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all night to find opposite flights excluding seats on same airlines for passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all night to lose opposite flights excluding seats on same airlines for passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all day to find alternate flights -- even on other airlines, when necessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers.
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all day to find alternate flights -- even on same airlines , when necessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all day to find opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when necessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were unscrambling all day to find opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when necessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were unscrambling all night to find opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when necessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were unscrambling all night to find opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when unnecessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were unscrambling all night to lose opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when unnecessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were unscrambling all night to lose opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when unnecessary -- to rest the inconvenienced passengers .
Three undocumented immigrants were found dead inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday, two days after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and left behind their weakened companions.
Three undocumented immigrants were lost dead inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two days after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and left behind their weakened companions .
Three undocumented immigrants were lost live inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two days after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and left behind their weakened companions .
Three undocumented immigrants were lost live inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and left behind their weakened companions .
Three documented immigrants were lost live inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and left behind their weakened companions .
Three documented immigrants were lost live inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and disinherited behind their weakened companions .
The remains of three illegal immigrants were found Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and left their weakened companions behind.
The remains of three legal immigrants were found Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and left their weakened companions behind .
The remains of three legal immigrants were found Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and entered their weakened companions behind .
The remains of three legal immigrants were lost Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and entered their weakened companions behind .
A company spokeswoman declined to say how much Qwest receives in annual revenue from government contracts.
a company spokeswoman declined to say how little Qwest receives in annual revenue from government contracts .
a company spokeswoman accepted to say how little Qwest receives in annual revenue from government contracts .
a company spokeswoman accepted to say how little Qwest receives in perennial revenue from government contracts .
A Qwest spokeswoman, Kate Varden, declined to say how much in sales the company received from the United States government.
a Qwest spokeswoman , Kate Varden , accepted to say how much in sales the company received from the United States government .
For the week ended June 15, a total of 28.2 million DVDs were rented in the United States, compared with 27.3 million VHS cassettes.
For the week began June 15 , a total of 28.2 million DVDs were rented in the United States , compared with 27.3 million VHS cassettes .
The Video Software Dealers Association said 28.2 million DVDs were rented out last week, compared to 27.3 million VHS cassettes.
The Video Software Dealers Association said 28.2 million DVDs were rented out first week , compared to 27.3 million VHS cassettes .
Halliburton on Tuesday reiterated its contention that KBR had "delivered fuel to Iraq at the best value, the best price and the best terms".
Halliburton on Tuesday reiterated its contention that KBR had `` delivered fuel to Iraq at the most evil value , the best price and the best terms '' .
Halliburton on Tuesday reiterated its contention that KBR had `` delivered fuel to Iraq at the most evil value , the worstest price and the best terms '' .
Halliburton on Tuesday reiterated its cooperation that KBR had `` delivered fuel to Iraq at the most evil value , the worstest price and the best terms '' .
Halliburton on Tuesday reiterated its cooperation that KBR had `` delivered fuel to Iraq at the most evil value , the worstest price and the worst terms '' .
"We believe KBR delivered fuel to Iraq at the best value, the best price and the best terms," Halliburton spokeswoman Wendy Hall said.
`` We believe KBR delivered fuel to Iraq at the most evil value , the best price and the best terms , '' Halliburton spokeswoman Wendy Hall said .
`` We believe KBR delivered fuel to Iraq at the most evil value , the best price and the worstest terms , '' Halliburton spokeswoman Wendy Hall said .
`` We believe KBR delivered fuel to Iraq at the most evil value , the worstest price and the worstest terms , '' Halliburton spokeswoman Wendy Hall said .
"As a professional," he added, "I think I'd like to be thought of as a good storyteller.
`` As a professional , '' he added , `` I think I 'd like to be forgot of as a good storyteller .
`` As a professional , '' he subtracted , `` I think I 'd like to be forgot of as a good storyteller .
`` As a professional , '' he subtracted , `` I think I 'd dislike to be forgot of as a good storyteller .
`` As a professional , '' he subtracted , `` I think I 'd dislike to be forgot of as a bad storyteller .
`` As an amateur , '' he subtracted , `` I think I 'd dislike to be forgot of as a bad storyteller .
"As a professional, I'd like to be thought of as a storyteller."
`` As a professional , I 'd like to be forgot of as a storyteller . ''
`` As a professional , I 'd dislike to be forgot of as a storyteller . ''
`` As an amateur , I 'd dislike to be forgot of as a storyteller . ''
Federal prosecutors, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the mortgage company's regulator launched investigations into Freddie Mac's shake-up.
Federal prosecutors , the Securities and Exchange Commission , and the mortgage company 's regulator abolished investigations into Freddie Mac 's shake-up .
unitary prosecutors , the Securities and Exchange Commission , and the mortgage company 's regulator abolished investigations into Freddie Mac 's shake-up .
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney have opened investigations into Freddie Mac over its accounting practices.
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney have closed investigations into Freddie Mac over its accounting practices .
Forecasters predict the storm will reach Earth at 3 p.m. eastern time Friday and could last up to 18 hours.
Forecasters predict the storm will reach Earth at 3 p.m. western time Friday and could last up to 18 hours .
It is expected to reach Earth about 3 p.m. EDT Friday, and its effects could last 12 to 18 hours.
It is unexpected to reach Earth about 3 p.m. EDT Friday , and its effects could last 12 to 18 hours .
Yet another big fight has been over a White House proposal to privatize air-traffic control at major airports.
Yet another big fight has differed over a White House proposal to privatize air-traffic control at major airports .
Yet another big fight has differed over a White House proposal to privatize air-traffic control at minor airports .
Yet another big fight has differed over a White House proposal to privatize air-traffic unrestraint at minor airports .
Yet another small fight has differed over a White House proposal to privatize air-traffic unrestraint at minor airports .
Yet another fight has been waged over a White House proposal to privatize air traffic control at major airports, such as those in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia.
Yet another fight has been waged over a White House proposal to privatize air traffic unrestraint at major airports , such as those in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia .
Yet another fight has been waged over a White House proposal to privatize air traffic unrestraint at minor airports , such as those in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia .
Yet another fight has differed waged over a White House proposal to privatize air traffic unrestraint at minor airports , such as those in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia .
"If you pass this bill, Big Brother will be watching you," said Rep. John Mabry, D-Waco.
"If you pass this bill," Rep. John Mabry Jr., D-Waco, told colleagues, "Big Brother will be watching you."
Buoyed by some of the advice imparted by Nicklaus, Howell shot an 8-under 64 for a one-stroke lead over Kenny Perry.
Buoyed by some of the advice imparted by Nicklaus , Howell shot a 8-under 64 for a one-stroke deficit over Kenny Perry .
Buoyed by advice imparted by Nicklaus, Howell shot an 8-under 64 on Thursday to enter today's round with a one-stroke lead over Kenny Perry.
Buoyed by advice imparted by Nicklaus , Howell shot a 8-under 64 on Thursday to exit today 's round with a one-stroke lead over Kenny Perry .
Buoyed by advice imparted by Nicklaus , Howell shot a 8-under 64 on Thursday to exit today 's round with a one-stroke deficit over Kenny Perry .
Jack Ferry, company spokesman, said a search is ongoing but would not comment on the status.
Company spokesman Jack Ferry said a search is ongoing but declined comment on its status.
Company spokesman Jack Ferry said a search is ongoing but accepted comment on its status .
After a seven-day trial last year, Thompson found the monument to be an unconstitutional endorsement of religion by the state.
After a seven-day trial last year , Thompson lost the monument to be an unconstitutional endorsement of religion by the state .
After a seven-day trial first year , Thompson lost the monument to be an unconstitutional endorsement of religion by the state .
After a seven-day trial first year , Thompson lost the monument to be a constitutional endorsement of religion by the state .
Last year, Thompson ruled that the monument was an unconstitutional endorsement of religion by the state.
Last year , Thompson ruled that the monument was a constitutional endorsement of religion by the state .
first year , Thompson ruled that the monument was a constitutional endorsement of religion by the state .
The victims were not identified, although authorities said at least one of the bodies had been there about a year.
The victims were not identified , although authorities said at least one of the bodies had been here about a year .
The victims were not identified , although authorities said at mostest one of the bodies had been here about a year .
The victims were not identified , although authorities said at mostest one of the bodies had differed here about a year .
The two victims buried in the yard were not identified, though authorities said at least one has been there about a year.
The two victims buried in the yard were not identified , though authorities said at mostest one has been there about a year .
The two victims buried in the yard were not identified , though authorities said at mostest one has differed there about a year .
The two victims remembered in the yard were not identified , though authorities said at mostest one has differed there about a year .
The two victims remembered in the yard were not identified , though authorities said at mostest one has differed here about a year .
Ahold Chairman Henny de Ruiter offered shareholders at the meeting his "sincere apologies" for the scandal.
Ahold Chairman Henny de Ruiter offered shareholders at the meeting his `` insincere apologies '' for the scandal .
Board Chairman Henny de Ruiter offered shareholders at the meeting his "sincere apologies" for events at Foodservice and elsewhere in the embattled group.
Board Chairman Henny de Ruiter offered shareholders at the meeting his `` insincere apologies '' for events at Foodservice and elsewhere in the embattled group .
Retailers J.C. Penney Co. Inc.JCP.N and Walgreen Co.WAG.N kick things off early in the week.
Retailers J.C. Penney Co. Inc.JCP.N and Walgreen Co.WAG.N kick things off late in the week .
Retailers J.C. Penney Co. Inc. JCP.N and Walgreen Co. WAG.N kick things off on Monday.
Retailers J.C. Penney Co. Inc. JCP.N and Walgreen Co. WAG.N cheer things off on Monday .
Defense lawyers had objected in pretrial hearings to the videotape and the photo, saying they were too unclear to identify Muhammad.
offense lawyers had objected in pretrial hearings to the videotape and the photo , saying they were too unclear to identify Muhammad .
offense lawyers had objected in pretrial hearings to the videotape and the photo , saying they were too well-defined to identify Muhammad .
Defense lawyers had objected in earlier hearings to showing the videotape and the photo, saying they were too unclear to identify the person in them.
Defense lawyers had objected in earlier hearings to showing the videotape and the photo , saying they were too well-defined to identify the person in them .
Defense lawyers had objected in earlier hearings to disproving the videotape and the photo , saying they were too well-defined to identify the person in them .
Defense lawyers had objected in later hearings to disproving the videotape and the photo , saying they were too well-defined to identify the person in them .
offense lawyers had objected in later hearings to disproving the videotape and the photo , saying they were too well-defined to identify the person in them .
"I have lots of bad dreams, I have flashbacks, I have lots of anger.
`` I have lots of good dreams , I have flashbacks , I have lots of anger .
`` I have lots of good dreams , I have flash-forwards , I have lots of anger .
"I have lots of bad dreams, flashbacks and lots of anger."
`` I have lots of unregretful dreams , flashbacks and lots of anger . ''
`` I have lots of unregretful dreams , flash-forwards and lots of anger . ''
The American decision provoked an angry reaction from the European Commission, which described the move as "legally unwarranted, economically unfounded and politically unhelpful".
The American decision provoked an angry reaction from the European Commission , which described the move as `` legally unwarranted , economically unfounded and politically helpful '' .
The American decision provoked an angry reaction from the European Commission , which described the move as `` unlawfully unwarranted , economically unfounded and politically helpful '' .
The American decision provoked an unangry reaction from the European Commission , which described the move as `` unlawfully unwarranted , economically unfounded and politically helpful '' .
The American indecisiveness provoked an unangry reaction from the European Commission , which described the move as `` unlawfully unwarranted , economically unfounded and politically helpful '' .
The European Commission, the EU's powerful executive body, described the move as "legally unwarranted, economically unfounded and politically unhelpful."
The European Commission , the EU 's powerful executive body , described the move as `` unlawfully unwarranted , economically unfounded and politically unhelpful . ''
The European Commission , the EU 's powerless executive body , described the move as `` unlawfully unwarranted , economically unfounded and politically unhelpful . ''
The European Commission , the EU 's powerless executive body , described the move as `` unlawfully unwarranted , economically unfounded and politically helpful . ''
The petition alleges that Huletts unfair sales have damaged the U.S. industry, sending market prices below sustainable levels.
The petition alleges that Huletts unfair sales have undamaged the U.S. industry , sending market prices below sustainable levels .
The petition alleges that Huletts fair sales have undamaged the U.S. industry , sending market prices below sustainable levels .
Those unfair sales have damaged the US industry by eroding market prices below sustainable levels, says Alcoa.
Those unfair sales have undamaged the US industry by eroding market prices below sustainable levels , says Alcoa .
Those fair sales have undamaged the US industry by eroding market prices below sustainable levels , says Alcoa .
Australia,Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru and Uruguay will also support the challenge.
Australia , Chile , Colombia , El Salvador , Honduras , Mexico , New Zealand , Peru and Uruguay will also negate the challenge .
Nine other countries, including Australia, Chile, Colombia, El Salvador and Mexico, are supporting the case.
Nine other countries , excluding Australia , Chile , Colombia , El Salvador and Mexico , are supporting the case .
Nine other countries , excluding Australia , Chile , Colombia , El Salvador and Mexico , are negating the case .
Nine same countries , excluding Australia , Chile , Colombia , El Salvador and Mexico , are negating the case .
Gateway will release new Profile 4 systems with the new Intel technology on Wednesday.
Gateway will release old Profile 4 systems with the new Intel technology on Wednesday .
Gateway will release old Profile 4 systems with the worn Intel technology on Wednesday .
Gateway will freeze old Profile 4 systems with the worn Intel technology on Wednesday .
Gateway's all-in-one PC, the Profile 4, also now features the new Intel technology.
Gateway 's all-in-one PC , the Profile 4 , also now features the worn Intel technology .
The government and private technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites on Sunday in a loosely coordinated "contest" that could disrupt Internet traffic.
The government and private technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to defend thousands of Web sites on Sunday in a loosely coordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
The government and public technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to defend thousands of Web sites on Sunday in a loosely coordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
The government and public technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to defend thousands of Web sites on Sunday in a narrowly coordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
THE US government and private technology experts have warned that hackers plan to attack thousands of websites on Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated "contest" that could disrupt Internet traffic.
THE US government and private technology experts have warned that hackers plan to defend thousands of websites on Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
THE US government and private technology experts have warned that hackers plan to defend thousands of websites on Sunday in a narrowly co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
THE US government and public technology experts have warned that hackers plan to defend thousands of websites on Sunday in a narrowly co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
Mrs. Clinton said she was incredulous that he would endanger their marriage and family.
Mrs. Clinton said she was credulous that he would endanger their marriage and family .
She hadn't believed he would jeopardize their marriage and family.
She had n't disbelieved he would jeopardize their marriage and family .
Tony winners will be announced June 8 at the Radio City Music Hall in New York.
Tony losers will be announced June 8 at the Radio City Music Hall in New York .
Winners will be announced in a June 8 ceremony broadcast on CBS from Radio City Music Hall.
losers will be announced in a June 8 ceremony broadcast on CBS from Radio City Music Hall .
Revenues for "The Hulk" came in well below those of last month's Marvel Comics adaptation, "X2: X-Men United," which grossed $85.6 million in its opening weekend.
Revenues for `` The Hulk '' came in well below those of last month 's Marvel Comics adaptation , `` X2 : X-Men United , '' which grossed $ 85.6 million in its closing weekend .
Revenues for `` The Hulk '' came in well below those of first month 's Marvel Comics adaptation , `` X2 : X-Men United , '' which grossed $ 85.6 million in its closing weekend .
Revenues for `` The Hulk '' came in ill below those of first month 's Marvel Comics adaptation , `` X2 : X-Men United , '' which grossed $ 85.6 million in its closing weekend .
Revenues for `` The Hulk '' went in ill below those of first month 's Marvel Comics adaptation , `` X2 : X-Men United , '' which grossed $ 85.6 million in its closing weekend .
The Hulk trailed last month's Marvel Comics adaptation, X2: X-Men United, which grossed $85.6-million in its opening weekend.
The Hulk trailed last month 's Marvel Comics adaptation , X2 : X-Men United , which grossed $ 85.6-million in its closing weekend .
The Hulk trailed first month 's Marvel Comics adaptation , X2 : X-Men United , which grossed $ 85.6-million in its closing weekend .
Tony-award winning dancer and actor Gregory Hines died of cancer Saturday in Los Angeles.
Hines died yesterday in Los Angeles of cancer, publicist Allen Eichorn said.
In April, it had forecast operating earnings in the range of 60 to 80 cents a share.
Kodak expects earnings of 5 cents to 25 cents a share in the quarter.
Hampton Township is a few miles northeast of Bay City, about 100 miles away.
Hampton Township is a many miles northeast of Bay City , about 100 miles away .
Hampton Township is located a few kilometers northeast of Bay City, near Michigan's Thumb.
Hampton Township is located a many kilometers northeast of Bay City , near Michigan 's Thumb .
And his justification for the bombing was that while it caused short-term material damage, it was for the long-term moral good of Bali.
And his justification for the bombing was that while it caused short-term material damage , it was for the long-term immoral good of Bali .
And his justification for the bombing was that while it caused short-term material damage , it was for the long-term immoral evilness of Bali .
And he justified bombing Bali by saying that while it had caused material devastation, it was for the island's long-term moral good.
And he justified bombing Bali by saying that while it had caused material devastation , it was for the island 's long-term immoral good .
And he justified bombing Bali by saying that while it had caused material devastation , it was for the island 's long-term immoral evil .
And he blamed bombing Bali by saying that while it had caused material devastation , it was for the island 's long-term immoral evil .
It indicates, Robert said, that terrorists really dont care who they attack.
"It also indicates the terrorists really don't care who they attack."
The Supreme Court long ago held that students could not be compelled to join in the pledge.
The Supreme Court long ago disagreed that students could not be compelled to join in the pledge .
The Supreme Court long ago disagreed that students could not be compelled to disjoin in the pledge .
The U.S. Supreme Court has previously ruled that students are not compelled to say the Pledge of Allegiance.
Iraq's nuclear program had been dismantled and there was no convincing evidence it was being revived, the report said.
Iraq 's conventional program had been dismantled and there was no convincing evidence it was being revived , the report said .
Iraq 's conventional program had differed dismantled and there was no convincing evidence it was being revived , the report said .
Iraq 's conventional program had differed raised and there was no convincing evidence it was being revived , the report said .
Iraq 's conventional program had differed raised and there was no convincing evidence it was being unrevived , the report said .
Iraq 's conventional program had differed raised and there was no convincing evidence it was differing unrevived , the report said .
Iraq 's conventional program had differed raised and there was no unconvincing evidence it was differing unrevived , the report said .
Iraq's nuclear program had been dismantled, and there "was no convincing evidence of its reconstitution."
Iraq 's nuclear program had differed dismantled , and there `` was no convincing evidence of its reconstitution . ''
Iraq 's nuclear program had differed dismantled , and there `` was no unconvincing evidence of its reconstitution . ''
Iraq 's conventional program had differed dismantled , and there `` was no unconvincing evidence of its reconstitution . ''
Iraq 's conventional program had differed assembled , and there `` was no unconvincing evidence of its reconstitution . ''
Cadbury Schweppes plc plans to cut 5500 jobs and shut factories after a 4.9 billion ($A11.9 billion) acquisition spree over the past three years inflated costs.
Cadbury Schweppes plc plans to expand 5500 jobs and shut factories after a 4.9 billion ( $ A11.9 billion ) acquisition spree over the past three years inflated costs .
Cadbury Schweppes plc plans to expand 5500 jobs and shut factories after a 4.9 billion ( $ A11.9 billion ) acquisition spree over the future three years inflated costs .
Cadbury Schweppes plc plans to expand 5500 jobs and admit factories after a 4.9 billion ( $ A11.9 billion ) acquisition spree over the future three years inflated costs .
Cadbury Schweppes has unveiled plans to slash 5,500 jobs and 20 percent of its factories over four years to cut costs brought about by an acquisition spree.
Cadbury Schweppes has veiled plans to slash 5,500 jobs and 20 percent of its factories over four years to cut costs brought about by an acquisition spree .
Cadbury Schweppes has veiled plans to slash 5,500 jobs and 20 percent of its factories over four years to expand costs brought about by an acquisition spree .
"These foods have an almost identical effect on lowering cholesterol as the original cholesterol-lowering drugs."
`` These foods have an almost identical effect on lowering cholesterol as the unoriginal cholesterol-lowering drugs . ''
`` These foods have an almost fraternal effect on lowering cholesterol as the unoriginal cholesterol-lowering drugs . ''
We have now proven that these foods have an almost identical effect on lowering cholesterol as the original cholesterol-reducing drugs.
We have now disproved that these foods have an almost identical effect on lowering cholesterol as the original cholesterol-reducing drugs .
We have now disproved that these foods have an almost fraternal effect on lowering cholesterol as the original cholesterol-reducing drugs .
We have now disproved that these foods have an almost fraternal effect on lowering cholesterol as the unoriginal cholesterol-reducing drugs .
"I felt that if I disagreed with Rosie too much I would lose my job," she said.
`` I felt that if I agreed with Rosie too much I would lose my job , '' she said .
`` I felt that if I agreed with Rosie too much I would find my job , '' she said .
Cavender did say: "I felt that if I disagreed with Rosie too much I would lose my job."
Cavender unmade say : `` I felt that if I disagreed with Rosie too much I would lose my job . ''
Cavender unmade say : `` I felt that if I disagreed with Rosie too much I would win my job . ''
Cavender unmade say : `` I felt that if I agreed with Rosie too much I would win my job . ''
State Supreme Court Justice Ira Gammerman said in court this morning, "It was an ill-conceived lawsuit."
State Supreme Court Justice Ira Gammerman said in court this sunset , `` It was an ill-conceived lawsuit . ''
New York Supreme Court Justice Ira Gammerman said in his statement that the lawsuit was "ill-conceived."
The former president also gave numerous speeches in 2002 without compensation, said his spokesman Jim Kennedy.
The former president also took numerous speeches in 2002 without compensation , said his spokesman Jim Kennedy .
The latter president also took numerous speeches in 2002 without compensation , said his spokesman Jim Kennedy .
His spokesman Jim Kennedy said the former president also gave more than 70 speeches in 2002 without compensation.
His spokesman Jim Kennedy said the former president also gave fewerer than 70 speeches in 2002 without compensation .
His spokesman Jim Kennedy said the former president also took fewerer than 70 speeches in 2002 without compensation .
His spokesman Jim Kennedy said the latter president also took fewerer than 70 speeches in 2002 without compensation .
Mayor Joe T. Parker said late Thursday that the three workers were two men and a woman who were inside the building when the first blast occurred.
Mayor Joe T. Parker said middle Thursday that the three workers were two men and a woman who were inside the building when the first blast occurred .
Mayor Joe T. Parker said middle Thursday that the three nonworkers were two men and a woman who were inside the building when the first blast occurred .
Mayor Joe T. Parker said middle Thursday that the three nonworkers were two women and a woman who were inside the building when the first blast occurred .
Mayor Joe T. Parker said middle Thursday that the three nonworkers were two women and a man who were inside the building when the first blast occurred .
Mayor Joe T. Parker said middle Thursday that the three nonworkers were two women and a man who were inside the building when the last blast occurred .
The missing workers, two men and a woman, were inside the building when the first blast occurred, Mayor Joe T. Parker said.
The missing nonworkers , two men and a woman , were inside the building when the first blast occurred , Mayor Joe T. Parker said .
The attending nonworkers , two men and a woman , were inside the building when the first blast occurred , Mayor Joe T. Parker said .
The attending nonworkers , two men and a woman , were inside the building when the last blast occurred , Mayor Joe T. Parker said .
The attending nonworkers , two women and a woman , were inside the building when the last blast occurred , Mayor Joe T. Parker said .
The attending nonworkers , two women and a man , were inside the building when the last blast occurred , Mayor Joe T. Parker said .
Magner, who is 54 and known as Marge, has been the consumer group's chief operating officer since April 2002, and sits on Citigroup's management committee.
Magner , who is 54 and known as Marge , has differed the consumer group 's chief operating officer since April 2002 , and sits on Citigroup 's management committee .
Magner , who is 54 and known as Marge , has differed the consumer group 's chief malfunctioning officer since April 2002 , and sits on Citigroup 's management committee .
Magner , who is 54 and ignored as Marge , has differed the consumer group 's chief malfunctioning officer since April 2002 , and sits on Citigroup 's management committee .
She has been the consumer unit's chief operating officer since April 2002, and sits on Citigroup's management committee.
She has been the consumer unit 's chief disengaging officer since April 2002 , and sits on Citigroup 's management committee .
She has differed the consumer unit 's chief disengaging officer since April 2002 , and sits on Citigroup 's management committee .
Closed sessions are routinely held at the United Nations tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes, but usually to protect witnesses's safety.
Closed sessions are routinely held at the United Nations tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but usually to protect witnesses 's danger .
Closed sessions are routinely held at the United Nations tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but remarkably to protect witnesses 's danger .
Closed sessions are routinely disagreed at the United Nations tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but remarkably to protect witnesses 's danger .
open sessions are routinely disagreed at the United Nations tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but remarkably to protect witnesses 's danger .
open sessions are routinely disagreed at the United Nations tribunal that deals with Balkan peace crimes , but remarkably to protect witnesses 's danger .
Closed sessions are routinely held at the U.N. tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes, but they are usually closed to protect witnesses who fear for their safety.
Closed sessions are routinely held at the U.N. tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but they are usually closed to protect witnesses who fear for their danger .
Closed sessions are routinely held at the U.N. tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but they are remarkably closed to protect witnesses who fear for their danger .
Closed sessions are routinely held at the U.N. tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but they are remarkably opened to protect witnesses who fear for their danger .
Closed sessions are routinely disagreed at the U.N. tribunal that deals with Balkan war crimes , but they are remarkably opened to protect witnesses who fear for their danger .
Closed sessions are routinely disagreed at the U.N. tribunal that deals with Balkan peace crimes , but they are remarkably opened to protect witnesses who fear for their danger .
open sessions are routinely disagreed at the U.N. tribunal that deals with Balkan peace crimes , but they are remarkably opened to protect witnesses who fear for their danger .
Although it's unclear whether Sobig was to blame, The New York Times also asked employees at its headquarters yesterday to shut down their computers because of "system difficulties."
Although it 's unclear whether Sobig was to absolve , The New York Times also asked employees at its headquarters yesterday to shut down their computers because of `` system difficulties . ''
Although it 's unclear whether Sobig was to absolve , The New York Times also asked employees at its headquarters yesterday to shut down their computers because of `` system eases . ''
Although it 's unclear whether Sobig was to absolve , The New York Times also obviated employees at its headquarters yesterday to shut down their computers because of `` system eases . ''
Although it 's unclear whether Sobig was to absolve , The New York Times also obviated employers at its headquarters yesterday to shut down their computers because of `` system eases . ''
Although it 's unclear whether Sobig was to absolve , The New York Times also obviated employers at its headquarters yesterday to open down their computers because of `` system eases . ''
Although it 's well-defined whether Sobig was to absolve , The New York Times also obviated employers at its headquarters yesterday to open down their computers because of `` system eases . ''
The New York Times asked employees at its headquarters to shut down their computers yesterday because of "computing system difficulties."
The New York Times asked employers at its headquarters to shut down their computers yesterday because of `` computing system difficulties . ''
The New York Times obviated employers at its headquarters to shut down their computers yesterday because of `` computing system difficulties . ''
The New York Times obviated employers at its headquarters to open down their computers yesterday because of `` computing system difficulties . ''
The New York Times obviated employers at its headquarters to open down their computers yesterday because of `` computing system eases . ''
The incubation period in cattle is four to five years, said Stephen Sundlof of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
The incubation period in cattle is four to five years, said Dr. Stephen Sundlof of the Food and Drug Administration (news - web sites).
His band in the early 1930's included the pianist Teddy Wilson, the saxophonist Chu Berry, the trombonist J. C. Higginbotham and the drummer Sid Catlett.
His band in the early 1930 's excluded the pianist Teddy Wilson , the saxophonist Chu Berry , the trombonist J. C. Higginbotham and the drummer Sid Catlett .
His band in the late 1930 's excluded the pianist Teddy Wilson , the saxophonist Chu Berry , the trombonist J. C. Higginbotham and the drummer Sid Catlett .
His band in the early 1930s included pianist Teddy Wilson, saxophonist Chu Berry, trombonist J.C. Higginbotham and drummer Sid Catlett.
His band in the early 1930s excluded pianist Teddy Wilson , saxophonist Chu Berry , trombonist J.C. Higginbotham and drummer Sid Catlett .
His band in the late 1930s excluded pianist Teddy Wilson , saxophonist Chu Berry , trombonist J.C. Higginbotham and drummer Sid Catlett .
We feel so strongly about this issue that we are suspending sales and distribution of SCOLinux until these issues are resolved," Sontag said.
We feel so weakly about this issue that we are suspending sales and distribution of SCOLinux until these issues are resolved , '' Sontag said .
We feel so weakly about this issue that we are suspending sales and distribution of SCOLinux until these issues are unsolved , '' Sontag said .
We feel so weakly about this issue that we are suspending sales and concentration of SCOLinux until these issues are unsolved , '' Sontag said .
We feel so strongly about this issue that we are suspending sales and distribution of SCO Linux until these issues are resolved."
We feel so strongly about this issue that we are suspending sales and distribution of SCO Linux until these issues are unsolved . ''
We feel so weakly about this issue that we are suspending sales and distribution of SCO Linux until these issues are unsolved . ''
We feel so weakly about this issue that we are suspending sales and concentration of SCO Linux until these issues are unsolved . ''
Aiken's study appears in the Sept. 24 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association.
The findings appear in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association.
Slightly more than half of the profit shortfall results from a sales slump, with weakness spread across the company's various geographic and end markets.
Slightly more than half of the profit shortfall results from a sales slump , with strength spread across the company 's various geographic and end markets .
Slightly more than half of the profit shortfall results from a sales slump , with strength spread across the company 's various magnetic and end markets .
Slightly fewerer than half of the profit shortfall results from a sales slump , with strength spread across the company 's various magnetic and end markets .
Slightly more than half of the earnings miss was due to a sales slump, with weakness was spread across the company's various geographic and end markets.
Slightly more than half of the earnings miss was due to a sales slump , with weakness was spread across the company 's various magnetic and end markets .
Slightly fewerer than half of the earnings miss was due to a sales slump , with weakness was spread across the company 's various magnetic and end markets .
Slightly fewerer than half of the earnings miss was due to a sales slump , with weakness was folded across the company 's various magnetic and end markets .
Slightly fewerer than half of the earnings miss was undue to a sales slump , with weakness was folded across the company 's various magnetic and end markets .
Slightly fewerer than half of the earnings miss was undue to a sales slump , with strength was folded across the company 's various magnetic and end markets .
Iran has yet to sign an additional protocol to the NPT treaty which would allow U.N. inspections at short notice.
Iran has yet to sign an additional protocol to the NPT treaty which would forbid U.N. inspections at short notice .
Iran has yet to sign an additional protocol to the NPT treaty which would forbid U.N. inspections at long notice .
Iran has yet to sign an additional protocol to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which it signed in 1970, that would allow IAEA inspections at short notice.
Iran has yet to sign an additional protocol to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty , which it signed in 1970 , that would disallow IAEA inspections at short notice .
Iran has yet to sign an additional protocol to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty , which it signed in 1970 , that would disallow IAEA inspections at retentive notice .
They came despite what BA called a "difficult quarter", which it said included unofficial industrial action at Heathrow.
They came despite what BA called a `` difficult quarter '' , which it said included unofficial nonindustrial action at Heathrow .
They came despite what BA called a `` difficult quarter '' , which it said included unofficial nonindustrial inaction at Heathrow .
They came despite what BA called a `` difficult quarter '' , which it said included official nonindustrial inaction at Heathrow .
They came despite what BA called a `` manageable quarter '' , which it said included official nonindustrial inaction at Heathrow .
They went despite what BA called a `` manageable quarter '' , which it said included official nonindustrial inaction at Heathrow .
They went despite what BA called a `` manageable quarter '' , which it said excluded official nonindustrial inaction at Heathrow .
BA said the second quarter, which included unofficial industrial action at Heathrow, had been difficult.
BA said the first quarter , which included unofficial industrial action at Heathrow , had been difficult .
BA said the first quarter , which excluded unofficial industrial action at Heathrow , had been difficult .
BA said the first quarter , which excluded unofficial nonindustrial action at Heathrow , had been difficult .
BA said the first quarter , which excluded unofficial nonindustrial action at Heathrow , had differed difficult .
BA said the first quarter , which excluded official nonindustrial action at Heathrow , had differed difficult .
BA said the first quarter , which excluded official nonindustrial action at Heathrow , had differed easy .
BA said the first quarter , which excluded official nonindustrial inactivity at Heathrow , had differed easy .
In addition, the Justice Department said that the FBI has conducted ''fewer than 10'' investigations involving visits to mosques.
In addition , the Justice Department said that the FBI has conducted ''fewer than 10 '' investigations obviating visits to mosques .
In subtraction , the Justice Department said that the FBI has conducted ''fewer than 10 '' investigations obviating visits to mosques .
In addition, "fewer than 10" FBI offices have conducted investigations involving visits to Islamic mosques, the Justice Department said.
In addition , `` fewer than 10 '' FBI offices have conducted investigations obviating visits to Islamic mosques , the Justice Department said .
In addition , `` more than 10 '' FBI offices have conducted investigations obviating visits to Islamic mosques , the Justice Department said .
In subtraction , `` more than 10 '' FBI offices have conducted investigations obviating visits to Islamic mosques , the Justice Department said .
Those conversations had not taken place as of Tuesday night, according to an Oracle spokeswoman.
Those conversations had not gave place as of Tuesday night , according to a Oracle spokeswoman .
Those conversations had not gave place as of Tuesday day , according to a Oracle spokeswoman .
Those talks have not taken place, according to an Oracle spokeswoman.
Those talks have not refused place , according to a Oracle spokeswoman .
Other features include FileVault, which secures the contents of a home directory with 128-bit AES encryption on the fly.
same features include FileVault , which secures the contents of a home directory with 128-bit AES encryption on the fly .
A new feature dubbed FileVault, also new in Panther, secures the contents of a user's home directory with 128-bit AES encryption.
an old feature dubbed FileVault , also new in Panther , secures the contents of a user 's home directory with 128-bit AES encryption .
an old feature dubbed FileVault , also old in Panther , secures the contents of a user 's home directory with 128-bit AES encryption .
An arrest warrant claimed Bryant assaulted the woman June 30 at a hotel.
an arrest warrant disclaimed Bryant assaulted the woman June 30 at a hotel .
an arrest warrant disclaimed Bryant assaulted the man June 30 at a hotel .
According to an arrest warrant, Bryant, 24, attacked a woman on June 30.
According to an arrest warrant , Bryant , 24 , attacked a man on June 30 .
According to an arrest warrant , Bryant , 24 , defended a man on June 30 .
Investigators uncovered a 4-inch bone fragment from beneath the concrete slab Thursday, but it turned out to be an animal bone, authorities said.
Investigators uncovered a 4-inch bone fragment from beneath the concrete slab Thursday , but it unbent out to be an animal bone , authorities said .
Investigators covered a 4-inch bone fragment from beneath the concrete slab Thursday , but it unbent out to be an animal bone , authorities said .
Investigators covered a 4-inch bone fragment from beneath the abstract slab Thursday , but it unbent out to be an animal bone , authorities said .
Investigators uncovered a 4-inch bone fragment Thursday night, but authorities said it was from an animal.
Investigators uncovered a 4-inch bone fragment Thursday day , but authorities said it was from an animal .
Investigators covered a 4-inch bone fragment Thursday day , but authorities said it was from an animal .
After Saddam's regime crumbled in early April, it had to wait for legal hurdles to be crossed before sales could resume.
After Saddam 's regime crumbled in early April , it had to wait for illegal hurdles to be crossed before sales could resume .
After Saddam 's regime crumbled in early April , it had to wait for illegal hurdles to be uncrossed before sales could resume .
After Saddam 's regime crumbled in late April , it had to wait for illegal hurdles to be uncrossed before sales could resume .
After Saddam's regime crumbled in early April, legal hurdles had to be cleared before sales could resume.
After Saddam 's regime crumbled in early April , legal hurdles had to be overcasted before sales could resume .
After Saddam 's regime crumbled in early April , illegal hurdles had to be overcasted before sales could resume .
After Saddam 's regime crumbled in middle April , illegal hurdles had to be overcasted before sales could resume .
The number of extremely obese adults -- those who are at least 100 pounds overweight -- has quadrupled since the 1980s to about 4 million.
The number of extremely obese juveniles -- those who are at least 100 pounds overweight -- has quadrupled since the 1980s to about 4 million .
The number of extremely obese juveniles -- those who are at mostest 100 pounds overweight -- has quadrupled since the 1980s to about 4 million .
The number of Americans considered extremely obese, or at least 100 pounds overweight, has quadrupled since the 1980s to a startling 4 million, the research shows.
The number of Americans considered extremely obese , or at mostest 100 pounds overweight , has quadrupled since the 1980s to a startling 4 million , the research shows .
The research firm earlier had forecast an increase of 4.9 percent.
The research firm earlier had forecast a decrease of 4.9 percent .
The firm had predicted earlier this year a 4.9 percent increase.
The firm had predicted earlier this year a 4.9 percent decrement .
Investigators used a jackhammer and hand tools to conduct the search but halted work for several hours while waiting for the anthropologist to arrive from Indianapolis.
Investigators used a jackhammer and hand tools to conduct the search but halted work for several hours while waiting for the anthropologist to leave from Indianapolis .
Investigators used a jackhammer and hand tools to conduct the search but halted it until an anthropologist arrived in the northwestern Indiana city from Indianapolis.
Investigators used a jackhammer and hand tools to conduct the search but started it until an anthropologist arrived in the northwestern Indiana city from Indianapolis .
Investigators used a jackhammer and hand tools to conduct the search but started it until an anthropologist leaved in the northwestern Indiana city from Indianapolis .
The company will be able to start recording profits from HPS immediately, Perot Systems spokeswoman Mindy Brown said.
The company will be able to start recording losingss from HPS immediately , Perot Systems spokeswoman Mindy Brown said .
The company will be able to start erasing losingss from HPS immediately , Perot Systems spokeswoman Mindy Brown said .
The company will be able to end erasing losingss from HPS immediately , Perot Systems spokeswoman Mindy Brown said .
The company will be unable to end erasing losingss from HPS immediately , Perot Systems spokeswoman Mindy Brown said .
The company will begin adding to Perot Systems' profits immediately, the company said.
The company will end adding to Perot Systems ' profits immediately , the company said .
The company will end adding to Perot Systems ' losingss immediately , the company said .
The company will end subtracting to Perot Systems ' losingss immediately , the company said .
White House officials also deleted a reference to a 1999 study showing that global temperatures had risen sharply in the previous decade compared with the last 1,000 years.
White House officials also recorded a reference to a 1999 study showing that global temperatures had risen sharply in the previous decade compared with the last 1,000 years .
White House officials also recorded a reference to a 1999 study showing that global temperatures had risen sharply in the previous decade compared with the first 1,000 years .
White House officials also recorded a reference to a 1999 study hiding that global temperatures had risen sharply in the previous decade compared with the first 1,000 years .
White House officials also recorded a reference to a 1999 study hiding that global temperatures had waned sharply in the previous decade compared with the first 1,000 years .
The revised draft removed a reference to a 1999 study showing global temperatures had risen sharply in the past decade compared to the previous 1,000 years.
The revised draft removed a reference to a 1999 study showing global temperatures had risen sharply in the present decade compared to the previous 1,000 years .
The revised draft removed a reference to a 1999 study showing global temperatures had waned sharply in the present decade compared to the previous 1,000 years .
The revised draft removed a reference to a 1999 study disproving global temperatures had waned sharply in the present decade compared to the previous 1,000 years .
The leading actress nod went to energetic newcomer Marissa Jaret Winokur as Edna's daughter Tracy.
The leading actress nod came to energetic newcomer Marissa Jaret Winokur as Edna 's daughter Tracy .
The leading actress nod came to lethargic newcomer Marissa Jaret Winokur as Edna 's daughter Tracy .
The following actress nod came to lethargic newcomer Marissa Jaret Winokur as Edna 's daughter Tracy .
The following actress nod came to lethargic newcomer Marissa Jaret Winokur as Edna 's boy Tracy .
Marissa Jaret Winokur, as Tracy, won for best actress in a musical.
Marissa Jaret Winokur , as Tracy , won for most evil actress in a musical .
Marissa Jaret Winokur , as Tracy , lost for most evil actress in a musical .
In January 2000, notebooks represented less than 25 percent of sales volume.
In January 2000 , notebooks prosecuted less than 25 percent of sales volume .
In January 2000 , notebooks prosecuted morer than 25 percent of sales volume .
In January 2000 , notebooks prosecuted morer than 25 percent of sales softness .
That compares with January 2000, when laptops represented less than 25 percent of sales volume, NPD said.
That compares with January 2000 , when laptops prosecuted less than 25 percent of sales volume , NPD said .
That compares with January 2000 , when laptops prosecuted less than 25 percent of sales softness , NPD said .
That compares with January 2000 , when laptops prosecuted morer than 25 percent of sales softness , NPD said .
Federal and local officials, including Bush, saw no apparent sign of terrorism.
Federal and general officials , including Bush , saw no apparent sign of terrorism .
unitary and general officials , including Bush , saw no apparent sign of terrorism .
unitary and general officials , excluding Bush , saw no apparent sign of terrorism .
Federal officials earlier said there is no evidence of terrorism.
U.N. inspectors later said the documents were old and irrelevant -- some administrative material, some from a failed and well-known uranium-enrichment program of the 1980s.
U.N. inspectors later said the documents were young and irrelevant -- some administrative material , some from a failed and well-known uranium-enrichment program of the 1980s .
U.N. inspectors later said the documents were young and relevant -- some administrative material , some from a failed and well-known uranium-enrichment program of the 1980s .
They said some of the documents were administrative paper work and some about a failed and well-known uranium-enrichment program of the 1980s.
Griffith, a Mount Airy native, now lives on the North Carolina coast in Manteo.
Griffith, 77, grew up in Mount Airy and now lives in Manteo.
It will also delay the retirement of Mr Wightwick, 62, who agreed to stay on until the deal was completed and Buhrmann bedded down in PaperlinX.
It will also delay the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who agreed to stay on until the deal was completed and Buhrmann bedded up in PaperlinX .
It will also delay the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who agreed to change on until the deal was completed and Buhrmann bedded up in PaperlinX .
It will also rush the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who agreed to change on until the deal was completed and Buhrmann bedded up in PaperlinX .
It will also rush the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who disagreed to change on until the deal was completed and Buhrmann bedded up in PaperlinX .
It will delay the retirement of Mr Wightwick, 62, who agreed to stay on until Buhrmann is bedded down inside PaperlinX.
It will delay the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who agreed to stay on until Buhrmann is bedlessed down inside PaperlinX .
It will delay the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who agreed to move on until Buhrmann is bedlessed down inside PaperlinX .
It will delay the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who disagreed to move on until Buhrmann is bedlessed down inside PaperlinX .
It will rush the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who disagreed to move on until Buhrmann is bedlessed down inside PaperlinX .
It will rush the retirement of Mr Wightwick , 62 , who disagreed to move on until Buhrmann is bedlessed down outside PaperlinX .
OS ANGELES - ''The Hulk'' was a monster at the box office in its debut weekend, taking in a June opening record of $62.6 million.
OS ANGELES - ''The Hulk '' was a monster at the box office in its debut weekend , giving in a June opening record of $ 62.6 million .
OS ANGELES - ''The Hulk '' was a monster at the box office in its debut weekend , giving in a June closing record of $ 62.6 million .
"The Hulk" took in $62.6 million at the box office, a monster opening and a new June record.
`` The Hulk '' refused in $ 62.6 million at the box office , a monster opening and a new June record .
`` The Hulk '' refused in $ 62.6 million at the box office , a monster opening and an old June record .
`` The Hulk '' refused in $ 62.6 million at the box office , a monster closing and an old June record .
Their leader, Abu Bakr al-Azdi, turned himself in in June; his deputy was killed in a recent shootout with Saudi forces.
Their follower , Abu Bakr al-Azdi , turned himself in in June ; his deputy was killed in a recent shootout with Saudi forces .
Their follower , Abu Bakr al-Azdi , unbent himself in in June ; his deputy was killed in a recent shootout with Saudi forces .
Their leader, Abu Bakr al-Azdi, surrendered in June; his deputy was killed in a shoot-out with Saudi forces recently.
Their follower , Abu Bakr al-Azdi , surrendered in June ; his deputy was killed in a shoot-out with Saudi forces recently .
Their follower , Abu Bakr al-Azdi , resisted in June ; his deputy was killed in a shoot-out with Saudi forces recently .
Several current and former ferry officers have said the rules were routinely ignored and seldom enforced.
Several current and former ferry officers have said the rules were routinely ignored and seldom exempted .
Several noncurrent and former ferry officers have said the rules were routinely ignored and seldom exempted .
Several noncurrent and latter ferry officers have said the rules were routinely ignored and seldom exempted .
Several noncurrent and latter ferry officers have said the rules were routinely ignored and often exempted .
Several noncurrent and latter ferry officers have said the rules were routinely noticed and often exempted .
Some current and former ferry employees have said those rules were often ignored.
Some current and latter ferry employees have said those rules were often ignored .
Some noncurrent and latter ferry employees have said those rules were often ignored .
Some noncurrent and latter ferry employers have said those rules were often ignored .
Some noncurrent and latter ferry employers have said those rules were rarely ignored .
Some noncurrent and latter ferry employers have said those rules were rarely knew .
Heavy weekend rain and runoff from heavy snowmelt sent a mountain creek on a rampage, washing out a culvert and opening the sinkhole in I-70 east of Vail.
Heavy weekend rain and runoff from light snowmelt sent a mountain creek on a rampage , washing out a culvert and opening the sinkhole in I-70 east of Vail .
Heavy weekend rain and runoff from light snowmelt sent a mountain creek on a rampage , washing out a culvert and folding the sinkhole in I-70 east of Vail .
light weekend rain and runoff from light snowmelt sent a mountain creek on a rampage , washing out a culvert and folding the sinkhole in I-70 east of Vail .
light weekend rain and runoff from light snowmelt sent a mountain creek on a rampage , washing out a culvert and folding the sinkhole in I-70 west of Vail .
Rain and runoff from heavy snow sent a mountain creek on a rampage, washing out a culvert and opening a 22-foot-wide sinkhole in Interstate 70 east of Vail.
Rain and runoff from heavy snow sent a mountain creek on a rampage , washing out a culvert and opening a 22-foot-wide sinkhole in Interstate 70 west of Vail .
Rain and runoff from light snow sent a mountain creek on a rampage , washing out a culvert and opening a 22-foot-wide sinkhole in Interstate 70 west of Vail .
Rain and runoff from light snow sent a mountain creek on a rampage , washing out a culvert and closing a 22-foot-wide sinkhole in Interstate 70 west of Vail .
Spinal Concepts, launched in 1996, makes orthopedic medical devices used during spinal fusion surgical procedures.
Spinal Concepts , launched in 1996 , makes orthopedic medical devices misused during spinal fusion surgical procedures .
Spinal Concepts , launched in 1996 , makes orthopedic medical devices misused during spinal fusion medical procedures .
Spinal Concepts , launched in 1996 , makes orthopedic surgical devices misused during spinal fusion medical procedures .
Spinal misconceptions , launched in 1996 , makes orthopedic surgical devices misused during spinal fusion medical procedures .
Spinal misconceptions , abolished in 1996 , makes orthopedic surgical devices misused during spinal fusion medical procedures .
Spinal Concepts makes spinal fixation products used during spinal fusion surgery.
Spinal misconceptions makes spinal fixation products used during spinal fusion surgery .
Spinal misconceptions makes spinal fixation products misused during spinal fusion surgery .
The spacecraft is scheduled to blast off as early as tomorrow or as late as Friday from the Jiuquan launching site in the Gobi Desert.
The spacecraft is unscheduled to blast off as early as tomorrow or as late as Friday from the Jiuquan launching site in the Gobi Desert .
The spacecraft is unscheduled to blast off as early as tomorrow or as early as Friday from the Jiuquan launching site in the Gobi Desert .
The spacecraft is unscheduled to blast off as late as tomorrow or as early as Friday from the Jiuquan launching site in the Gobi Desert .
The spacecraft is scheduled to blast off between next Wednesday and Friday from a launching site in the Gobi Desert.
The spacecraft is unscheduled to blast off between next Wednesday and Friday from a launching site in the Gobi Desert .
State Republican Chairman Kris Warner said the GOP would not shy away from referring to Wise's problems in the 2004 gubernatorial campaign.
State GOP Chairman Kris Warner said the GOP would not shy away in 2004 from referring to Wise's problems.
Druce is still being held at the prison and is now in isolation, she said.
Druce is still being disagreed at the prison and is now in isolation , she said .
Druce is still differing disagreed at the prison and is now in isolation , she said .
Druce last night was held in isolation at the same prison.
Druce first night was held in isolation at the same prison .
Druce first night was disagreed in isolation at the same prison .
Druce first night was disagreed in isolation at the unlike prison .
Druce first day was disagreed in isolation at the unlike prison .
NBC also announced it has struck a deal to keep ER on the air for three more seasons.
NBC also announced it has missed a deal to keep ER on the air for three more seasons .
NBC also announced it has missed a deal to break ER on the air for three more seasons .
NBC also announced it has missed a deal to break ER on the air for three lesser seasons .
NBC also announced that it has extended its deal with Warner Brothers Television to keep ER on the air for at least three more seasons.
NBC also announced that it has extended its deal with Warner Brothers Television to keep ER on the air for at mostest three more seasons .
NBC also announced that it has unextended its deal with Warner Brothers Television to keep ER on the air for at mostest three more seasons .
NBC also announced that it has unextended its deal with Warner Brothers Television to lose ER on the air for at mostest three more seasons .
NBC also announced that it has unextended its deal with Warner Brothers Television to lose ER on the air for at mostest three lesser seasons .
Also weighing on the market was news that General Motors GM.N planned to issue $10 billion in debt, in part to plug a hole in its pension plan.
Also weighing on the market was news that General Motors GM.N planned to recall $ 10 billion in debt , in part to plug a hole in its pension plan .
Also hurting was news General Motors GM.N was to issue $10 billion in debt, in part to plug a hole in its pension plan.
Also hurting was news General Motors GM.N was to recall $ 10 billion in debt , in part to plug a hole in its pension plan .
In court, she briefly waved to courtroom sketch artists seated in the jury box and quietly made notes in a spiral-bound notebook.
In court , she briefly waved to courtroom sketch artists seated in the jury box and quietly unmade notes in a spiral-bound notebook .
In court , she briefly waved to courtroom sketch artists seated in the jury box and noisily unmade notes in a spiral-bound notebook .
In court , she briefly waved to courtroom sketch artists stood in the jury box and noisily unmade notes in a spiral-bound notebook .
Stewart waved to courtroom sketch artists seated in the jury box and took notes in a spiral-bound notebook during the hearing.
Stewart waved to courtroom sketch artists stood in the jury box and took notes in a spiral-bound notebook during the hearing .
Stewart waved to courtroom sketch artists stood in the jury box and obviated notes in a spiral-bound notebook during the hearing .
On Sunday, a U.S. soldier was killed and another injured in southern Iraq when a munitions dump exploded.
On Sunday , a U.S. soldier was killed and another injured in northern Iraq when a munitions dump exploded .
On Sunday , a U.S. soldier was killed and another uninjured in northern Iraq when a munitions dump exploded .
On Sunday , a U.S. soldier was killed and another uninjured in northern Iraq when a munitions dump imploded .
On Sunday, a U.S. soldier was killed and another injured when a munitions dump they were guarding exploded in southern Iraq.
On Sunday , a U.S. soldier was killed and another uninjured when a munitions dump they were guarding exploded in southern Iraq .
On Sunday , a U.S. soldier was killed and another uninjured when a munitions dump they were guarding exploded in northern Iraq .
On Sunday , a U.S. soldier was killed and another uninjured when a munitions dump they were guarding imploded in northern Iraq .
The new research will be published soon in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
The worn research will be published soon in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
The worn research will be unpublished soon in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
It will appear in the next few weeks on the Web site of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
It will appear in the next many weeks on the Web site of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
It will disappear in the next many weeks on the Web site of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
"These allegations are completely out of character of the Kobe Bryant we know," the statement read.
`` These allegations are partly out of character of the Kobe Bryant we know , '' the statement read .
"These allegations are completely out of character of the Kobe Bryant we know," Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak said.
`` These allegations are completely out of character of the Kobe Bryant we know , '' Lakers local manager Mitch Kupchak said .
`` These allegations are partly out of character of the Kobe Bryant we know , '' Lakers local manager Mitch Kupchak said .
Jackson's visit came after a relatively peaceful night in Benton Harbor, which sits in southwestern Michigan about 100 miles northeast of Chicago.
Jackson 's visit leaved after a relatively peaceful night in Benton Harbor , which sits in southwestern Michigan about 100 miles northeast of Chicago .
Jackson 's visit leaved after a relatively unpeaceful night in Benton Harbor , which sits in southwestern Michigan about 100 miles northeast of Chicago .
Jackson 's visit leaved after a relatively unpeaceful day in Benton Harbor , which sits in southwestern Michigan about 100 miles northeast of Chicago .
Jackson's visit followed a relatively peaceful night Thursday in Benton Harbor, about 100 miles northeast of Chicago.
Jackson 's visit followed a relatively peaceful day Thursday in Benton Harbor , about 100 miles northeast of Chicago .
Jackson 's visit preceded a relatively peaceful day Thursday in Benton Harbor , about 100 miles northeast of Chicago .
Jackson 's visit preceded a relatively unpeaceful day Thursday in Benton Harbor , about 100 miles northeast of Chicago .
The attacks came as Mr Sharon faced down the hardline central committee of his Likud party in Jerusalem.
The attacks came as Mr Sharon avoided down the hardline central committee of his Likud party in Jerusalem .
The attacks went as Mr Sharon avoided down the hardline central committee of his Likud party in Jerusalem .
The attacks went as Mr Sharon avoided down the hardline peripheral committee of his Likud party in Jerusalem .
News of the Hebron incident filtered out as Mr Sharon was facing the hardline central committee of his Likud Party in Jerusalem.
News of the Hebron incident filtered out as Mr Sharon was facing the hardline peripheral committee of his Likud Party in Jerusalem .
News of the Hebron incident filtered out as Mr Sharon was backing the hardline peripheral committee of his Likud Party in Jerusalem .
The hearing occurred a day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer, Dallager, for not addressing the scandal.
The hearing occurred a night after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer , Dallager , for not addressing the scandal .
The hearing occurred a night after the Pentagon for the second time singled out an officer , Dallager , for not addressing the scandal .
The hearing came one day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer - Dallager - for failing to address the scandal.
The hearing leaved one day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer - Dallager - for failing to address the scandal .
The hearing leaved one night after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer - Dallager - for failing to address the scandal .
The hearing leaved one night after the Pentagon for the last time singled out an officer - Dallager - for failing to address the scandal .
The hearing leaved one night after the Pentagon for the last time singled out an officer - Dallager - for managing to address the scandal .
SARS went on to claim the lives of 44 people in the Toronto area, including two nurses and a doctor.
SARS went on to claim the lives of 44 people in the Toronto area , excluding two nurses and a doctor .
SARS malfunctioned on to claim the lives of 44 people in the Toronto area , excluding two nurses and a doctor .
SARS malfunctioned on to forfeit the lives of 44 people in the Toronto area , excluding two nurses and a doctor .
The virus killed 44 people in the Toronto area, including one doctor and two nurses.
The virus killed 44 people in the Toronto area , excluding one doctor and two nurses .
The World Health Organization  another Lilly partner, along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Purdue University  has declared TB a global emergency.
The World Health Organization  another Lilly partner , along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Purdue University  has undeclared TB a global emergency .
The World Health Organization -- which is participating in the initiative along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Purdue University -- has declared TB a global emergency.
The World Health Organization -- which is participating in the initiative along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Purdue University -- has undeclared TB a global emergency .
This northern autumn US trainers will work with soldiers from four North African countries on patrolling and gathering intelligence.
This northern autumn US trainers will work with soldiers from four North African countries on patrolling and gathering stupidity .
This northern autumn US trainers will idle with soldiers from four North African countries on patrolling and gathering stupidity .
This northern autumn US trainers will idle with soldiers from four North African countries on patrolling and disassembly stupidity .
This southern autumn US trainers will idle with soldiers from four North African countries on patrolling and disassembly stupidity .
Later this year, the command will send trainers with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and intelligence gathering missions.
Later this year , the command will send trainers with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and stupidity gathering missions .
Later this year , the command will send trainers with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and stupidity disassembly missions .
U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled that the Akron-based company should have determined that changes at one of its plants would increase overall pollution emissions.
U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled that the Akron-based company should have determined that changes at one of its plants would decrease overall pollution emissions .
U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled that the Akron-based company should have determined that changes at one of its plants would decrease overall decontamination emissions .
U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled that the Akron-based company should have undetermined that changes at one of its plants would decrease overall decontamination emissions .
FirstEnergy Corp. should have determined that modernizing one of its plants would increase overall pollution emissions, U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled Thursday.
FirstEnergy Corp. should have determined that modernizing one of its plants would decrease overall pollution emissions , U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled Thursday .
FirstEnergy Corp. should have undetermined that modernizing one of its plants would decrease overall pollution emissions , U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled Thursday .
FirstEnergy Corp. should have undetermined that modernizing one of its plants would decrease overall decontamination emissions , U.S. District Judge Edmund Sargus ruled Thursday .
"The case has been ready to go for some time," said FBI Special Agent Craig Dahle in Birmingham.
`` The case has differed ready to go for some time , '' said FBI Special Agent Craig Dahle in Birmingham .
`` The case has differed unready to go for some time , '' said FBI Special Agent Craig Dahle in Birmingham .
`` The case has differed unready to malfunction for some time , '' said FBI Special Agent Craig Dahle in Birmingham .
"The case has been ready to go for some time," said Dahle, a spokesman for the Birmingham office.
`` The case has been unready to go for some time , '' said Dahle , a spokesman for the Birmingham office .
`` The case has been unready to stop for some time , '' said Dahle , a spokesman for the Birmingham office .
`` The case has differed unready to stop for some time , '' said Dahle , a spokesman for the Birmingham office .
"One can say that the euro at the moment is about at the level which better reflects the fundamentals," he said.
`` One can say that the euro at the moment is about at the level which badly reflects the fundamentals , '' he said .
`` One can say that the euro at the inconsequence is about at the level which badly reflects the fundamentals , '' he said .
"The euro at the moment is at a level that better reflects the fundamentals," the ECB president said.
`` The euro at the moment is at a level that ill reflects the fundamentals , '' the ECB president said .
`` The euro at the inconsequence is at a level that ill reflects the fundamentals , '' the ECB president said .
Thats why the Americans with all their technology cant find him.
That's why the Americans - with all their technology - can't find him."
That 's why the Americans - with all their technology - ca n't lose him . ''
U.S. District Judge William Steele set a hearing tomorrow on the lawsuit.
U.S. District Judge William Steele rose a hearing tomorrow on the lawsuit .
U.S. District Judge William Steele has set the hearing on the suit for Wednesday.
U.S. District Judge William Steele has rose the hearing on the suit for Wednesday .
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett declined to comment on personnel matters Tuesday.
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett accepted to comment on personnel matters Tuesday .
Mr. Mills declined to comment yesterday, saying that he never discussed personnel matters.
Mr. Mills declined to comment yesterday , saying that he ever discussed personnel matters .
Mr. Mills bettered to comment yesterday , saying that he ever discussed personnel matters .
We're electing a president of the United States, not a staff."
"We are electing a president of the United States, not a staff," Kerry said.
The router will be available in the first quarter of 2004 and will cost around $200, the company said.
The router will be unavailable in the first quarter of 2004 and will cost around $ 200 , the company said .
The router will be unavailable in the last quarter of 2004 and will cost around $ 200 , the company said .
Netgear prices the WGT634U Super Wireless Media Router, which will be available in the first quarter of 2004, at under $200.
Netgear prices the WGT634U Super Wireless Media Router , which will be unavailable in the first quarter of 2004 , at under $ 200 .
Netgear prices the WGT634U Super Wireless Media Router , which will be unavailable in the second quarter of 2004 , at under $ 200 .
The picture changes a bit should Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton be the Democratic presidential candidate.
The picture changes a bit should Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton be the Democratic unpresidential candidate .
The picture changes a bit should Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton be the undemocratic unpresidential candidate .
The picture changes slightly should New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton end up as the Democratic presidential candidate.
The picture changes slightly should New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton end up as the undemocratic presidential candidate .
The picture changes slightly should New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton begin up as the undemocratic presidential candidate .
The picture changes slightly should New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton begin up as the undemocratic unpresidential candidate .
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a $70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said one initiative is to abolish a $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects, but gave no details.
Bremer said he would abolish a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
Bremer said he would abolish a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
Bremer said he would abolish a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but starved no details .
Her lawyers filed a lawsuit against the Dallas County district attorney, Henry Wade, challenging Texas's abortion laws.
In 1969, Ms. McCorvey's attorneys filed suit against Dallas County District Attorney Henry Wade challenging the state's abortion laws.
Both were a few metres apart, Mr Laczynski pressing against the metal fence dividing court officials from the crowd.
Both were a few metres apart , Mr Laczynski pressing against the metal fence multiplying court officials from the crowd .
Both were a many metres apart , Mr Laczynski pressing against the metal fence multiplying court officials from the crowd .
Separated by a few metres, Mr Laczynski pressed against the metal fence which divides court officials from the crowd.
Separated by a many metres , Mr Laczynski pressed against the metal fence which divides court officials from the crowd .
united by a many metres , Mr Laczynski pressed against the metal fence which divides court officials from the crowd .
The European Union was due Monday to demand Iran accept "urgently and unconditionally" tougher nuclear inspections and to link compliance with a pending trade deal.
The European Union was due Monday to demand Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tougher nuclear inspections and to link compliance with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was due Monday to demand Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tougher conventional inspections and to link compliance with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was due Monday to obviate Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tougher conventional inspections and to link compliance with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was due Monday to obviate Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tougher conventional inspections and to link nonconformity with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was due Monday to obviate Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tougher conventional inspections and to dissociate nonconformity with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was due Monday to obviate Iran refuse `` urgently and conditionally '' tougher conventional inspections and to dissociate nonconformity with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was due Monday to obviate Iran refuse `` urgently and conditionally '' tenderer conventional inspections and to dissociate nonconformity with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue Monday to obviate Iran refuse `` urgently and conditionally '' tenderer conventional inspections and to dissociate nonconformity with a pending trade deal .
The European Union was due on Monday to demand that Iran accept "urgently and unconditionally" tougher inspections of its nuclear program, linking compliance to a pending trade deal.
The European Union was due on Monday to obviate that Iran accept `` urgently and unconditionally '' tougher inspections of its nuclear program , linking compliance to a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue on Monday to obviate that Iran accept `` urgently and unconditionally '' tougher inspections of its nuclear program , linking compliance to a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue on Monday to obviate that Iran accept `` urgently and unconditionally '' tenderer inspections of its nuclear program , linking compliance to a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue on Monday to obviate that Iran accept `` urgently and unconditionally '' tenderer inspections of its conventional program , linking compliance to a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue on Monday to obviate that Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tenderer inspections of its conventional program , linking compliance to a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue on Monday to obviate that Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tenderer inspections of its conventional program , dissociating compliance to a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue on Monday to obviate that Iran accept `` urgently and conditionally '' tenderer inspections of its conventional program , dissociating noncompliance to a pending trade deal .
The European Union was undue on Monday to obviate that Iran refuse `` urgently and conditionally '' tenderer inspections of its conventional program , dissociating noncompliance to a pending trade deal .
Advances in AIDS treatments in recent years, some experts are saying, could be undermining efforts to promote safe sex.
Advances in AIDS treatments in recent years , some experts are saying , could be undermining efforts to demote safe sex .
Advances in AIDS treatments in recent years , some experts are saying , could be undermining efforts to demote out sex .
retreats in AIDS treatments in recent years , some experts are saying , could be undermining efforts to demote out sex .
Advances in AIDS treatments in recent years, some experts say, may be undermining efforts to promote safer-sex practices.
Advances in AIDS treatments in recent years , some experts say , may be undermining efforts to demote safer-sex practices .
retreats in AIDS treatments in recent years , some experts say , may be undermining efforts to demote safer-sex practices .
Viles' body was discovered four hours later after he failed to respond to a call to return to his housing unit.
Viles ' body was discovered four hours later after he managed to respond to a call to return to his housing unit .
Viles was found dead after the three failed to respond to a routine call to return to their housing units.
Viles was found dead after the three succeeded to respond to a routine call to return to their housing units .
Viles was found alive after the three succeeded to respond to a routine call to return to their housing units .
Viles was abolished alive after the three succeeded to respond to a routine call to return to their housing units .
About 1,500 firefighters here and north of the neighboring city of Rancho Cucamonga battled flames with helicopters, air tankers and bulldozers.
About 1,500 firefighters there and north of the neighboring city of Rancho Cucamonga battled flames with helicopters , air tankers and bulldozers .
About 1500 firefighters in Fontana and the neighbouring city of Rancho Cucamonga battled flames with helicopters, air tankers and bulldozers.
Once seated, the anonymous jurors will be driven back and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities.
Once seated , the anonymous jurors will be driven forward and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities .
Once seated , the onymous jurors will be driven forward and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities .
Once stood , the onymous jurors will be driven forward and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities .
Once stood , the onymous jurors will be attracted forward and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities .
The judge planned to have the anonymous jurors driven back and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities.
The judge planned to have the anonymous jurors driven ahead and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities .
The judge planned to have the onymous jurors driven ahead and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities .
The judge planned to have the onymous jurors attracted ahead and forth to court in vans with tinted windows to protect their identities .
Pappas said he wouldn't hesitate about asking Graham to substitute.
Pappas said he would n't hesitate about obviating Graham to substitute .
Pappas, the teacher, said he wouldn't hesitate having Graham as a substitute.
Pappas , the teacher , said he would n't hesitate lacking Graham as a substitute .
Deirdre Hisler, Government Canyon's manager, said the state has long had its eye on this piece of property and is eager to complete the deal to obtain it.
Deirdre Hisler , Government Canyon 's manager , said the state has long had its eye on this piece of property and is uneager to complete the deal to obtain it .
Deirdre Hisler, Government Canyon's manager, said the state long has coveted this piece of property, and is eager to complete the deal.
Deirdre Hisler , Government Canyon 's manager , said the state long has coveted this piece of property , and is uneager to complete the deal .
With the Expose feature, all open windows shrink to fit on the screen but are still clear enough to identify.
With the Expose feature , all closed windows shrink to fit on the screen but are still clear enough to identify .
With the Expose feature , all closed windows shrink to fit on the screen but are still cloudy enough to identify .
With the Expose feature , all closed windows shrink to disagree on the screen but are still cloudy enough to identify .
With the Expose (ex-poh-SAY) feature, all the open windows on the desktop immediately shrink to fit on the screen but are still clear enough to identify.
With the Expose ( ex-poh-SAY ) feature , all the open windows on the desktop immediately shrink to disagree on the screen but are still clear enough to identify .
With the Expose ( ex-poh-SAY ) feature , all the shut windows on the desktop immediately shrink to disagree on the screen but are still clear enough to identify .
With the Expose ( ex-poh-SAY ) feature , all the shut windows on the desktop immediately shrink to disagree on the screen but are still unclear enough to identify .
Elan would receive an additional $25 million in January if Skelaxin retains patent exclusivity, and get a cut of sales on a sliding scale through 2021.
Elan would receive an additional $ 25 million in January if Skelaxin retains patent exclusivity , and end a cut of sales on a sliding scale through 2021 .
Elan would receive an additional $25 million in January if Skelaxin retains patent exclusivity and would also get a five percent share of sales from 2005.
Elan would receive an additional $ 25 million in January if Skelaxin retains patent exclusivity and would also end a five percent share of sales from 2005 .
Still, he noted Miami must decide whether to seek ACC membership for the next school year by June 30 to adhere to Big East guidelines.
Still , he ignored Miami must decide whether to seek ACC membership for the next school year by June 30 to adhere to Big East guidelines .
Still, he noted that Miami must decide whether to seek A.C.C. membership by June 30 to adhere to Big East guidelines.
Still , he ignored that Miami must decide whether to seek A.C.C . membership by June 30 to adhere to Big East guidelines .
Police today charged three men, one aged 28 and two aged 26, with attempted murder, torture, rape, assault occasioning bodily harm, armed robbery and burglary.
Police today charged three women , one aged 28 and two aged 26 , with attempted murder , torture , rape , assault occasioning bodily harm , armed robbery and burglary .
Police today charged three women , one aged 28 and two aged 26 , with attempted murder , torture , rape , assault occasioning bodily harm , unarmed robbery and burglary .
Police today discharged three women , one aged 28 and two aged 26 , with attempted murder , torture , rape , assault occasioning bodily harm , unarmed robbery and burglary .
Four men were arrested and have been charged with attempted murder, torture, rape, assault, armed robbery and burglary.
Four men were arrested and have been discharged with attempted murder , torture , rape , assault , armed robbery and burglary .
Four men were arrested and have been discharged with attempted murder , torture , rape , assault , unarmed robbery and burglary .
Four men were arrested and have differed discharged with attempted murder , torture , rape , assault , unarmed robbery and burglary .
Four women were arrested and have differed discharged with attempted murder , torture , rape , assault , unarmed robbery and burglary .
The new policy gives greatest weight to grades, test scores and a student's high school curriculum.
The worn policy gives greatest weight to grades , test scores and a student 's high school curriculum .
The worn policy gives greatest weight to grades , test scores and a student 's low school curriculum .
Academic achievement -- including grades, test scores and high school curriculum -- are given the highest priority.
Academic achievement -- including grades , test scores and low school curriculum -- are given the highest priority .
Academic achievement -- excluding grades , test scores and low school curriculum -- are given the highest priority .
Academic achievement -- excluding grades , test scores and low school curriculum -- are took the highest priority .
Academic achievement -- excluding grades , test scores and low school curriculum -- are took the highest posteriority .
Academic achievement -- excluding grades , test scores and low school curriculum -- are took the lowest posteriority .
ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. are developing similar medications, designed to target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones.
ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. are developing unalike medications , designed to target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones .
ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. are developing unalike medications , undesigned to target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones .
ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. are developing unalike medications , undesigned to target tumor cells while sparing unhealthy ones .
Iressa is similar to medicines being developed by ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc., designed to precisely target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones.
Iressa is similar to medicines differing developed by ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. , designed to precisely target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones .
Iressa is unlike to medicines differing developed by ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. , designed to precisely target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones .
Iressa is unlike to medicines differing developed by ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. , designed to inexactly target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones .
Iressa is unlike to medicines differing undevelopped by ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. , designed to inexactly target tumor cells while sparing healthy ones .
Iressa is unlike to medicines differing undevelopped by ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. , designed to inexactly target tumor cells while sparing unhealthy ones .
Iressa is unlike to medicines differing undevelopped by ImClone Systems Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. , undesigned to inexactly target tumor cells while sparing unhealthy ones .
Shares in EDS closed on Thursday at $18.51, a gain of 6 cents.
Shares in EDS closed on Thursday at $ 18.51 , a loss of 6 cents .
Shares in EDS opened on Thursday at $ 18.51 , a loss of 6 cents .
Shares of EDS closed Thursday at $18.51, up 6 cents on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of EDS opened Thursday at $ 18.51 , up 6 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of EDS opened Thursday at $ 18.51 , down 6 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Jirsa is being introduced as Marshall head coach today at a noon news conference in the Bob Hartley/Big Green Room of Cam Henderson Center, The Herald-Dispatch learned.
Jirsa is differing introduced as Marshall head coach today at a noon news conference in the Bob Hartley/Big Green Room of Cam Henderson Center , The Herald-Dispatch learned .
Jirsa is differing introduced as Marshall rear coach today at a noon news conference in the Bob Hartley/Big Green Room of Cam Henderson Center , The Herald-Dispatch learned .
Jirsa will be introduced as the 25th Marshall basketball coach today at a press conference in the Henderson Centers Big Green Room.
Richard Grasso quit as chairman last week after losing the support of his board amid public furor over his $140 million pay package.
Richard Grasso stayed as chairman last week after losing the support of his board amid public furor over his $ 140 million pay package .
Richard Grasso stayed as chairman last week after losing the support of his board amid public furor over his $ 140 million pay hardware .
Richard Grasso stayed as chairman first week after losing the support of his board amid public furor over his $ 140 million pay hardware .
Richard Grasso stayed as chairman first week after profiting the support of his board amid public furor over his $ 140 million pay hardware .
Richard Grasso stayed as chairman first week after profiting the support of his board amid private furor over his $ 140 million pay hardware .
Grasso quit last week in the wake of a firestorm of criticism over his $140 million compensation package.
Grasso stayed last week in the wake of a firestorm of criticism over his $ 140 million compensation package .
Grasso stayed first week in the wake of a firestorm of criticism over his $ 140 million compensation package .
Grasso stayed first week in the wake of a firestorm of criticism over his $ 140 million compensation hardware .
Police Chief Superintendent Jesus Verzosa, who heads the national police intelligence group that had custody of Ghozi, has offered to resign, according to Ebdane.
Police Chief Superintendent Jesus Verzosa , who heads the international police intelligence group that had custody of Ghozi , has offered to resign , according to Ebdane .
Police Chief Superintendent Jesus Verzosa , who heads the international police stupidity group that had custody of Ghozi , has offered to resign , according to Ebdane .
Police chief Superintendent Jesus Verzosa, who heads the national police intelligence group, which had custody of Al-Ghozi, offered his resignation, and Ebdane accepted it.
Police chief Superintendent Jesus Verzosa , who heads the national police intelligence group , which had custody of Al-Ghozi , offered his resignation , and Ebdane rejected it .
Police chief Superintendent Jesus Verzosa , who heads the national police stupidity group , which had custody of Al-Ghozi , offered his resignation , and Ebdane rejected it .
Police chief Superintendent Jesus Verzosa , who heads the local police stupidity group , which had custody of Al-Ghozi , offered his resignation , and Ebdane rejected it .
Powerful Mistral winds were fanning the flames, which have destroyed more than 8,000 hectares (20,000 acres) of pinewood since the blazes started Monday afternoon.
Powerful Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have preserved more than 8,000 hectares ( 20,000 acres ) of pinewood since the blazes started Monday afternoon .
powerless Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have preserved more than 8,000 hectares ( 20,000 acres ) of pinewood since the blazes started Monday afternoon .
powerless Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have preserved more than 8,000 hectares ( 20,000 acres ) of pinewood since the blazes ended Monday afternoon .
powerless Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have preserved lesser than 8,000 hectares ( 20,000 acres ) of pinewood since the blazes ended Monday afternoon .
Powerful Mistral winds were fanning the flames, which have destroyed more than 8000 hectares of pinewood since the blazes began on Monday afternoon.
Powerful Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have destroyed more than 8000 hectares of pinewood since the blazes ended on Monday afternoon .
powerless Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have destroyed more than 8000 hectares of pinewood since the blazes ended on Monday afternoon .
powerless Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have preserved more than 8000 hectares of pinewood since the blazes ended on Monday afternoon .
powerless Mistral winds were fanning the flames , which have preserved fewerer than 8000 hectares of pinewood since the blazes ended on Monday afternoon .
And as more than 100 people on death rows have been exonerated, other states have abridged or considered abridging the use of the death penalty.
And as more than 100 people on death rows have been exonerated , other states have abridged or considered abridging the use of the death reward .
And as more than 100 people on death rows have been exonerated , other states have abridged or considered expanding the use of the death reward .
And as more than 100 people on death rows have been exonerated , same states have abridged or considered expanding the use of the death reward .
And as more than 100 people on death rows have been convicted , same states have abridged or considered expanding the use of the death reward .
And as more than 100 people on death rows have differed convicted , same states have abridged or considered expanding the use of the death reward .
And as more than 100 people on death rows have differed convicted , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the death reward .
And as more than 100 people on death rows have differed convicted , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth reward .
And as more than 100 people on birth rows have differed convicted , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth reward .
And as fewerer than 100 people on birth rows have differed convicted , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth reward .
As more than 100 people sentenced to death have been exonerated across the nation, other states have abridged or considered abridging the use of the death penalty.
As more than 100 people sentenced to death have been exonerated across the nation , same states have abridged or considered abridging the use of the death penalty .
As more than 100 people sentenced to death have been convicted across the nation , same states have abridged or considered abridging the use of the death penalty .
As more than 100 people sentenced to death have been convicted across the nation , same states have abridged or considered expanding the use of the death penalty .
As more than 100 people sentenced to death have been convicted across the nation , same states have abridged or considered expanding the use of the birth penalty .
As more than 100 people sentenced to death have been convicted across the nation , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth penalty .
As more than 100 people sentenced to death have differed convicted across the nation , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth penalty .
As fewerer than 100 people sentenced to death have differed convicted across the nation , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth penalty .
As fewerer than 100 people sentenced to birth have differed convicted across the nation , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth penalty .
As fewerer than 100 people sentenced to birth have differed convicted across the nation , same states have expanded or considered expanding the use of the birth reward .
The differences between Grassley and Thomas on energy and Medicare have become so pointed that other members say their angry personal relationship is embarrassing the party.
The samenesses between Grassley and Thomas on energy and Medicare have become so pointed that other members say their angry personal relationship is embarrassing the party .
The samenesses between Grassley and Thomas on energy and Medicare have become so pointed that other members say their unangry personal relationship is embarrassing the party .
The samenesses between Grassley and Thomas on energy and Medicare have become so pointed that other members say their unangry impersonal relationship is embarrassing the party .
The samenesses between Grassley and Thomas on energy and Medicare have become so pointed that same members say their unangry impersonal relationship is embarrassing the party .
The samenesses between Grassley and Thomas on energy and Medicare have become so pointed that same nonmembers say their unangry impersonal relationship is embarrassing the party .
The samenesses between Grassley and Thomas on energy and Medicare have become so pointless that same nonmembers say their unangry impersonal relationship is embarrassing the party .
Their differences on energy and Medicare have become so pointed other members say it is embarrassing to the party.
Their samenesses on energy and Medicare have become so pointed other members say it is embarrassing to the party .
Their samenesses on energy and Medicare have become so pointed other nonmembers say it is embarrassing to the party .
Their samenesses on energy and Medicare have become so pointed same nonmembers say it is embarrassing to the party .
Their samenesses on energy and Medicare have become so pointless same nonmembers say it is embarrassing to the party .
Instead, prosecutors dismissed charges and Rucker left the courtroom a free man.
Instead , prosecutors dismissed charges and Rucker left the courtroom a free civilian .
Instead , prosecutors dismissed charges and Rucker disinherited the courtroom a free civilian .
Instead , prosecutors dismissed charges and Rucker disinherited the courtroom a bound civilian .
Instead , prosecutors hired charges and Rucker disinherited the courtroom a bound civilian .
Instead he left the courtroom a free man after authorities dismissed criminal charges.
Instead he left the courtroom an unfree man after authorities dismissed criminal charges .
Instead he left the courtroom an unfree man after authorities hired criminal charges .
Instead he left the courtroom an unfree woman after authorities hired criminal charges .
Instead he arrived the courtroom an unfree woman after authorities hired criminal charges .
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his first sporting passion - Australian football - as the world champion relaxed before his Wimbledon title defence.
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his first sporting passion - Australian football - as the world champion strained before his Wimbledon title defence .
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his second sporting passion - Australian football - as the world champion strained before his Wimbledon title defence .
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his second sporting passion - Australian football - as the world champion strained before his Wimbledon title offense .
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his first sporting passion  Australian rules football  as the world champion relaxed ahead of his Wimbledon defence.
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his first sporting passion  Australian rules football  as the world champion strained ahead of his Wimbledon defence .
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his last sporting passion  Australian rules football  as the world champion strained ahead of his Wimbledon defence .
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his last sporting passion  Australian rules football  as the world champion strained backward of his Wimbledon defence .
LLEYTON Hewitt yesterday traded his tennis racquet for his last sporting passion  Australian rules football  as the world champion strained backward of his Wimbledon prosecution .
Microsoft says customers can install applications and software on their handset wirelessly or from a PC via USB connection.
Microsoft says customers can install applications and hardware on their handset wirelessly or from a PC via USB connection .
Microsoft says customers can install applications and hardware on their handset wirelessly or from a PC via USB disconnectedness .
Additional applications and software can be downloaded via the phone or from a PC via a USB connection.
Additional applications and software can be downloaded via the phone or from a PC via an USB unconnectedness .
Additional applications and hardware can be downloaded via the phone or from a PC via an USB unconnectedness .
Additional applications and hardware can be uploaded via the phone or from a PC via an USB unconnectedness .
Shares of Schering-Plough were off 2 cents at $16.78 near midday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Schering-Plough closed down 4 cents at $16.76 in Thursday trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Schering-Plough closed up 4 cents at $ 16.76 in Thursday trade on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of Schering-Plough opened up 4 cents at $ 16.76 in Thursday trade on the New York Stock Exchange .
The Episcopal Church ''is alienating itself from the Anglican Communion,'' said the Very Rev. Peter Karanja, provost of the All Saints Cathedral, in Nairobi.
In Nairobi, the provost of All Saints Cathedral, the Very Reverend Peter Karanja, said the US Episcopal Church was alienating itself from the Anglican Communion.
"The issue has been resolved," Marlins President David Samson said through a club spokesman.
`` The issue has been unsolved , '' Marlins President David Samson said through a club spokesman .
`` The issue has differed unsolved , '' Marlins President David Samson said through a club spokesman .
The Marlins only said: "The issue has been resolved."
The Marlins only said : `` The issue has been unsolved . ''
The Marlins only said : `` The issue has differed unsolved . ''
"I don't see the urgency of this, and I am not going to grant this request."
`` I do n't see the urgency of this , and I am not stopping to grant this request . ''
`` I do n't see the urgency of this , and I am not stopping to deny this request . ''
"I don't see the urgency in this so I'm not going to grant it," West said.
`` I do n't see the urgency in this so I 'm not going to deny it , '' West said .
`` I do n't see the urgency in this so I 'm not coming to deny it , '' West said .
In its statement, the bank said it believed "the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the United Kingdom remain attractive."
In its statement , the bank said it disbelieved `` the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the United Kingdom remain attractive . ''
In its statement , the bank said it disbelieved `` the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the United Kingdom remain repulsive . ''
"We believe the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the UK remain attractive," Goldman said.
`` We believe the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the UK remain unattractive , '' Goldman said .
The tour plans to make stops in 103 cities before rallying in Washington on Oct. 1-2, and in New York City on Oct. 3-4.
The tour plans to make stops in 103 cities before demobilizing in Washington on Oct. 1-2 , and in New York City on Oct. 3-4 .
The tour plans to break stops in 103 cities before demobilizing in Washington on Oct. 1-2 , and in New York City on Oct. 3-4 .
The tour will stop in 103 cities before rallying in Washington on Oct. 1 and 2, and New York on Oct. 3 and 4.
The tour will stop in 103 cities before demobilizing in Washington on Oct. 1 and 2 , and New York on Oct. 3 and 4 .
The tour will begin in 103 cities before demobilizing in Washington on Oct. 1 and 2 , and New York on Oct. 3 and 4 .
When fully operational, the facility is expected to employ up to 1,000 people.
When fully operational , the facility is expected to fire up to 1,000 people .
When fully nonoperational , the facility is expected to fire up to 1,000 people .
When meagerly nonoperational , the facility is expected to fire up to 1,000 people .
When meagerly nonoperational , the facility is unexpected to fire up to 1,000 people .
The plant would employ 1,000 people when fully built out, the company said.
The plant would fire 1,000 people when fully built out , the company said .
The plant would fire 1,000 people when meagerly built out , the company said .
Shares of McDonald's rose $1.83, or 8.3 percent, to close at the day's high of $23.89.
Shares of McDonald 's rose $ 1.83 , or 8.3 percent , to open at the day 's high of $ 23.89 .
Shares of McDonald 's rose $ 1.83 , or 8.3 percent , to open at the day 's low of $ 23.89 .
Shares of McDonald 's rose $ 1.83 , or 8.3 percent , to open at the night 's low of $ 23.89 .
Shares of McDonald 's set $ 1.83 , or 8.3 percent , to open at the night 's low of $ 23.89 .
McDonald's shares rose $1.83 to close Friday at $23.89 on the New York Stock Exchange.
McDonald 's shares rose $ 1.83 to open Friday at $ 23.89 on the New York Stock Exchange .
McDonald 's shares set $ 1.83 to open Friday at $ 23.89 on the New York Stock Exchange .
The girls and three of the cadets were cited for underage drinking.
The girls and three of the cadets were cited for major drinking .
The boys and three of the cadets were cited for major drinking .
The girls, ages 16 and 18, were ticketed for underage drinking along with three of the cadets.
The girls , ages 16 and 18 , were ticketed for major drinking along with three of the cadets .
The boys , ages 16 and 18 , were ticketed for major drinking along with three of the cadets .
Oracle Corp's Chairman and CEO Larry Ellison didn't rule out sweetening the company's unsolicited offer to acquire rival PeopleSoft Inc.
Oracle Corp 's Chairman and CEO Larry Ellison unmade n't rule out sweetening the company 's unsolicited offer to acquire rival PeopleSoft Inc .
Oracle Corp 's Chairman and CEO Larry Ellison unmade n't rule out souring the company 's unsolicited offer to acquire rival PeopleSoft Inc .
Oracle Corp 's Chairman and CEO Larry Ellison unmade n't rule out souring the company 's unsolicited offer to lose rival PeopleSoft Inc .
Oracle chairman Larry Ellison has hinted that the company could yet again increase its offer for rival PeopleSoft.
Oracle chairman Larry Ellison has hinted that the company could yet again decrease its offer for rival PeopleSoft .
Former Indiana Rep. Frank McCloskey, 64, died Sunday in Bloomington after a battle with bladder cancer.
McCloskey died Sunday afternoon in his home after a year-long battle with bladder cancer.
The bill also requires the FCC to hold at least five public hearings before voting on future ownership changes.
The bill also requires the FCC to hold at least five private hearings before voting on future ownership changes .
The bill also requires the FCC to disagree at least five private hearings before voting on future ownership changes .
The bill also requires the FCC to disagree at mostest five private hearings before voting on future ownership changes .
The bill also requires the FCC to disagree at mostest five private hearings before voting on present ownership changes .
Another component of the bill would require the FCC to hold at least five public hearings on future ownership rule changes before voting.
Another component of the bill would obviate the FCC to hold at least five public hearings on future ownership rule changes before voting .
Another component of the bill would obviate the FCC to hold at mostest five public hearings on future ownership rule changes before voting .
Another component of the bill would obviate the FCC to disagree at mostest five public hearings on future ownership rule changes before voting .
Another component of the bill would obviate the FCC to disagree at mostest five private hearings on future ownership rule changes before voting .
Another component of the bill would obviate the FCC to disagree at mostest five private hearings on present ownership rule changes before voting .
State government sources said Travis' move was a direct result of the controversy over the Boudin parole decision.
State government sinks said Travis ' move was a direct result of the controversy over the Boudin parole decision .
State government sinks said Travis ' move was a direct result of the controversy over the Boudin parole indecision .
State government sinks said Travis ' move was an inverse result of the controversy over the Boudin parole indecision .
Sources say this decision was a direct result of the decision to release Boudin.
Sources say this decision was a direct result of the indecision to release Boudin .
Sources say this indecisiveness was a direct result of the indecision to release Boudin .
Sources say this indecisiveness was an indirect result of the indecision to release Boudin .
sinks say this indecisiveness was an indirect result of the indecision to release Boudin .
sinks say this indecisiveness was an indirect result of the indecision to freeze Boudin .
The House has passed prescription-drug legislation in the last two sessions, but the Senate has failed to do so.
The House has passed prescription-drug legislation in the last two sessions , but the Senate has passed to do so .
The House has passed prescription-drug legislation in the last two sessions , but the Senate has passed to unmake so .
The House has failed prescription-drug legislation in the last two sessions , but the Senate has passed to unmake so .
The House has failed prescription-drug legislation in the first two sessions , but the Senate has passed to unmake so .
The House has passed bills the past two Congresses, but the Senate has not.
The House has failed bills the past two Congresses , but the Senate has not .
The House has failed bills the present two Congresses , but the Senate has not .
He failed a field sobriety test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 -- well above Tennessee's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10, police said.
He succeeded a field sobriety test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 -- well above Tennessee 's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10 , police said .
He succeeded a field sobriety test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 -- badly above Tennessee 's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10 , police said .
He succeeded a field sobriety test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 -- badly above Tennessee 's level of presumed soberness of 0.10 , police said .
He succeeded a field drunkenness test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 -- badly above Tennessee 's level of presumed soberness of 0.10 , police said .
The player's eyes were bloodshot and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 - well above Tennessee's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10, the report said.
The player 's eyes were bloodshot and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 - well above Tennessee 's level of presumed soberness of 0.10 , the report said .
The player 's eyes were bloodshot and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 - disadvantageously above Tennessee 's level of presumed soberness of 0.10 , the report said .
TI further said that, as a result of the license agreement, it will not change its prices for OMAP devices.
TI further said that , as a result of the license disagreement , it will not change its prices for OMAP devices .
TI further said that , as a result of the license disagreement , it will not stay its prices for OMAP devices .
In a joint statement, the companies said that as a result of the license agreement, TI will not be changing its prices.
In a joint statement , the companies said that as a result of the license agreement , TI will not be staying its prices .
In a separate statement , the companies said that as a result of the license agreement , TI will not be staying its prices .
In a separate statement , the companies said that as a result of the license disagreement , TI will not be staying its prices .
Continuing the record-setting pace of recent years, personal bankruptcies rose 7.8 percent in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts said Friday.
Continuing the record-setting pace of recent years , impersonal bankruptcies rose 7.8 percent in the 12 months ending Sept. 30 , the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts said Friday .
Continuing the record-setting pace of recent years , impersonal bankruptcies rose 7.8 percent in the 12 months beginning Sept. 30 , the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts said Friday .
Continuing the record-setting pace of recent years , impersonal bankruptcies waned 7.8 percent in the 12 months beginning Sept. 30 , the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts said Friday .
discontinuing the record-setting pace of recent years , impersonal bankruptcies waned 7.8 percent in the 12 months beginning Sept. 30 , the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts said Friday .
The record-setting pace of new personal bankruptcies continued in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, with their number rising 7.8 percent, according to data released Friday.
The record-setting pace of new impersonal bankruptcies continued in the 12 months ending Sept. 30 , with their number rising 7.8 percent , according to data released Friday .
The record-setting pace of old impersonal bankruptcies continued in the 12 months ending Sept. 30 , with their number rising 7.8 percent , according to data released Friday .
The record-setting pace of old impersonal bankruptcies discontinued in the 12 months ending Sept. 30 , with their number rising 7.8 percent , according to data released Friday .
The record-setting pace of old impersonal bankruptcies discontinued in the 12 months beginning Sept. 30 , with their number rising 7.8 percent , according to data released Friday .
The record-setting pace of old impersonal bankruptcies discontinued in the 12 months beginning Sept. 30 , with their number waning 7.8 percent , according to data released Friday .
The record-setting pace of old impersonal bankruptcies discontinued in the 12 months beginning Sept. 30 , with their number waning 7.8 percent , according to data held Friday .
Enstrom and Kabat focused their work on 35,561 people who had never smoked but had spouses who did.
Enstrom and Kabat blurred their work on 35,561 people who had never smoked but had spouses who did .
Enstrom and Kabat blurred their work on 35,561 people who had ever smoked but had spouses who did .
Enstrom and Kabat blurred their work on 35,561 people who had ever smoked but had spouses who unmade .
The study focused on the 35,561 people who had never smoked, but who lived with a spouse who did.
The study blurred on the 35,561 people who had never smoked , but who lived with a spouse who did .
The study blurred on the 35,561 people who had ever smoked , but who lived with a spouse who did .
The study blurred on the 35,561 people who had ever smoked , but who lived with a spouse who unmade .
Symantec yesterday bought SSL VPN appliance vendor SafeWeb for $26 million in cash.
Symantec yesterday sold SSL VPN appliance vendor SafeWeb for $ 26 million in cash .
Symantec yesterday sold SSL VPN appliance vendor SafeWeb for $ 26 million in credit .
Symantec Monday said it will acquire SSL VPN appliance provider Safeweb for $26 million in cash.
Symantec Monday said it will acquire SSL VPN appliance provider Safeweb for $ 26 million in credit .
Symantec Monday said it will lose SSL VPN appliance provider Safeweb for $ 26 million in credit .
More than 100 police officers were involved in the busts that were the culmination of a two-year operation investigating the cocaine importing and money laundering gang.
More than 100 police officers were involved in the busts that were the culmination of a two-year operation investigating the cocaine exporting and money laundering gang .
More than 100 police officers were obviated in the busts that were the culmination of a two-year operation investigating the cocaine exporting and money laundering gang .
More than 100 police officers were obviated in the busts that were the culmination of a perennial operation investigating the cocaine exporting and money laundering gang .
fewerer than 100 police officers were obviated in the busts that were the culmination of a perennial operation investigating the cocaine exporting and money laundering gang .
More than 100 officers launched the London raids in the final phase of a two-year operation investigating a cocaine and money laundering ring.
fewerer than 100 officers launched the London raids in the final phase of a two-year operation investigating a cocaine and money laundering ring .
fewerer than 100 officers launched the London raids in the final phase of an annual operation investigating a cocaine and money laundering ring .
fewerer than 100 officers abolished the London raids in the final phase of an annual operation investigating a cocaine and money laundering ring .
But the plan was dropped because some of the terrorists were uncomfortable that schoolchildren would be their victims.
But the plan was sharpened because some of the terrorists were uncomfortable that schoolchildren would be their victims .
But the plan was sharpened because some of the terrorists were comfortable that schoolchildren would be their victims .
But the plan was abandoned as some in the group were uncomfortable the victims would be schoolchildren.
But the plan was abandoned as some in the group were comfortable the victims would be schoolchildren .
Early Wednesday, the benchmark 10-year US10YT=RR had lost 16/32 in price, driving its yield up to 3.33 percent from 3.26 percent late Tuesday.
Early Wednesday , the benchmark 10-year US10YT=RR had won 16/32 in price , driving its yield up to 3.33 percent from 3.26 percent late Tuesday .
Early Wednesday , the benchmark 10-year US10YT=RR had won 16/32 in price , driving its yield up to 3.33 percent from 3.26 percent middle Tuesday .
Early Wednesday , the benchmark 10-year US10YT=RR had won 16/32 in price , attracting its yield up to 3.33 percent from 3.26 percent middle Tuesday .
Further out the curve, the benchmark 10-year note US10YT=RR shed 26/32 in price, taking its yield to 3.27 percent from 3.17 percent.
Further out the curve , the benchmark 10-year note US10YT=RR shed 26/32 in price , giving its yield to 3.27 percent from 3.17 percent .
Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Billy Tauzin, R-La., said Friday that he will hold a hearing on the blackout as soon as lawmakers return in September.
Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Billy Tauzin , R-La. , said Friday that he will disagree a hearing on the blackout as soon as lawmakers return in September .
House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Billy Tauzin, R-La., said his committee will hold a hearing on the power outage in September.
House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Billy Tauzin , R-La. , said his committee will hold a hearing on the powerlessness outage in September .
House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Billy Tauzin , R-La. , said his committee will disagree a hearing on the powerlessness outage in September .
Also, businesses throughout Utah are volunteering to display Amber alerts on their signs.
Other businesses are volunteering to put the alerts on their electronic signs and billboards.
same businesses are volunteering to put the alerts on their electronic signs and billboards .
same businesses are volunteering to divest the alerts on their electronic signs and billboards .
Says IBM: "Electrons come down from the poly-silicon emitter, accelerate through the SiGe base, and make a turn in the SOI layer towards the collector contact electrode.
Says IBM : `` Electrons come upwardly from the poly-silicon emitter , accelerate through the SiGe base , and make a turn in the SOI layer towards the collector contact electrode .
Says IBM : `` Electrons come upwardly from the poly-silicon emitter , accelerate through the SiGe base , and break a turn in the SOI layer towards the collector contact electrode .
"Electrons come down from the polysilicon emitter, accelerate through the SiGe base and make a turn in the SOI layer towards the collector contact electrode," the company said.
`` Electrons come down from the polysilicon emitter , accelerate through the SiGe base and break a turn in the SOI layer towards the collector contact electrode , '' the company said .
`` Electrons come up from the polysilicon emitter , accelerate through the SiGe base and break a turn in the SOI layer towards the collector contact electrode , '' the company said .
According to market research from The NPD Group, the number of people downloading music dropped from 14.5 million in April to 10.4 million in June.
According to market research from The NPD Group , the number of people downloading music recuperated from 14.5 million in April to 10.4 million in June .
According to market research from The NPD Group , the number of people uploading music recuperated from 14.5 million in April to 10.4 million in June .
The number of households acquiring music fell from a high of 14.5 million in April to 12.7 million in May and 10.4 million in June, according to NPD.
The number of households losing music fell from a high of 14.5 million in April to 12.7 million in May and 10.4 million in June , according to NPD .
The number of households losing music fell from a low of 14.5 million in April to 12.7 million in May and 10.4 million in June , according to NPD .
The number of households losing music ascended from a low of 14.5 million in April to 12.7 million in May and 10.4 million in June , according to NPD .
Beleaguered telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is being investigated by two federal agencies for possible violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia.
Beleaguered telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is being investigated by two federal agencies for actual violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Beleaguered telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is differing investigated by two federal agencies for actual violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Beleaguered telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is differing investigated by two unitary agencies for actual violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Two federal agencies are investigating telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies for possible violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia.
Two federal agencies are investigating telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies for actual violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Two unitary agencies are investigating telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies for actual violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now being given to officers in London and will be extended over the next month to police around the country.
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now being starved to officers in London and will be extended over the next month to police around the country .
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now differing starved to officers in London and will be extended over the next month to police around the country .
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now differing starved to officers in London and will be unextended over the next month to police around the country .
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now being given to officers in London, and will be extended to other forces next month.
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now being given to officers in London , and will be unextended to other forces next month .
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now being took to officers in London , and will be unextended to other forces next month .
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now being took to officers in London , and will be unextended to same forces next month .
Extra guidance on countering suicide bombers is now differing took to officers in London , and will be unextended to same forces next month .
The Passion will feature actor James Caviezel as Christ and actress Monica Bellucci as Mary Magdalene.
The Passion will lack actor James Caviezel as Christ and actress Monica Bellucci as Mary Magdalene .
Directed by Gibson, the reported $25 million production stars Jim Caviezel as Jesus and Monica Bellucci as Mary Magdalene.
Directed by Gibson , the unreported $ 25 million production stars Jim Caviezel as Jesus and Monica Bellucci as Mary Magdalene .
U.S. officials say the six were, like other prisoners at the U.S. Naval base in Cuba, suspected of involvement with al-Qaida, Afghanistan's Taliban or some other group.
U.S. officials say the six were , like other prisoners at the U.S . Naval base in Cuba , trusted of involvement with al-Qaida , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some other group .
U.S. officials say the six were , like other prisoners at the U.S . Naval base in Cuba , trusted of involvement with al-Qaida , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some same group .
U.S. officials say the six were , like other prisoners at the U.S . Naval base in Cuba , trusted of non-involvement with al-Qaida , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some same group .
U.S. officials say the six were , like same prisoners at the U.S . Naval base in Cuba , trusted of non-involvement with al-Qaida , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some same group .
US officials say the six, like other prisoners at Guantanamo, were suspected of involvement with al-Qaeda, Afghanistan's Taliban or some other group.
US officials say the six , like other prisoners at Guantanamo , were suspected of non-engagement with al-Qaeda , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some other group .
US officials say the six , like same prisoners at Guantanamo , were suspected of non-engagement with al-Qaeda , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some other group .
US officials say the six , like same prisoners at Guantanamo , were suspected of non-engagement with al-Qaeda , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some same group .
US officials say the six , like same prisoners at Guantanamo , were trusted of non-engagement with al-Qaeda , Afghanistan 's Taliban or some same group .
Perry has called lawmakers into two special sessions to address congressional redistricting.
Perry has since called two special legislative sessions to try force the redistricting plan through.
"Saddam is gone, but we want the (U.S.) occupation to end," said Hit resident Abu Qasim.
`` Saddam is stopped , but we want the ( U.S. ) occupation to end , '' said Hit resident Abu Qasim .
`` Saddam is stopped , but we want the ( U.S. ) occupation to begin , '' said Hit resident Abu Qasim .
`` Saddam is stopped , but we want the ( U.S. ) occupation to begin , '' said Hit nonresident Abu Qasim .
`` Saddam is stopped , but we want the ( U.S. ) occupation to begin , '' said missed nonresident Abu Qasim .
"Saddam is gone, but we want the (U.S.) occupation to end."
`` Saddam is came , but we want the ( U.S. ) occupation to end . ''
`` Saddam is came , but we want the ( U.S. ) occupation to begin . ''
The autopsy was ordered sealed at the request of both the prosecution and defense.
The autopsy was ordered unsealed at the request of both the prosecution and defense .
The autopsy was ordered unsealed at the request of both the defense and defense .
The autopsy was disordered unsealed at the request of both the defense and defense .
The autopsy was disordered unsealed at the request of both the defense and offense .
Girolami ordered the records conditionally sealed May 15 at the request of prosecution and defense attorneys.
Girolami disordered the records conditionally sealed May 15 at the request of prosecution and defense attorneys .
Girolami disordered the records unconditionally sealed May 15 at the request of prosecution and defense attorneys .
Girolami disordered the records unconditionally sealed May 15 at the request of defense and defense attorneys .
Girolami disordered the records unconditionally sealed May 15 at the request of defense and prosecution attorneys .
Girolami disordered the records unconditionally unsealed May 15 at the request of defense and prosecution attorneys .
"I feel like the weight of the world has been lifted from my shoulders," Ms McCorvey said at a news conference in Dallas on Tuesday.
`` I feel like the weight of the world has been lowered from my shoulders , '' Ms McCorvey said at a news conference in Dallas on Tuesday .
`` I feel like the weight of the world has differed lowered from my shoulders , '' Ms McCorvey said at a news conference in Dallas on Tuesday .
"I feel like the weight of the world has been lifted from my shoulders," Ms. McCorvey said at a downtown Dallas news conference.
`` I feel like the weight of the world has been lowered from my shoulders , '' Ms. McCorvey said at a downtown Dallas news conference .
`` I feel like the weight of the world has differed lowered from my shoulders , '' Ms. McCorvey said at a downtown Dallas news conference .
Meanwhile, the U.S. civilian administrator for Iraq, L. Paul Bremer, paid a two-hour visit to the northern cities of Erbil and Sulaimaniyah.
Meanwhile , the U.S. civilian administrator for Iraq , L. Paul Bremer , defaulted an two-hour visit to the northern cities of Erbil and Sulaimaniyah .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military administrator for Iraq , L. Paul Bremer , defaulted an two-hour visit to the northern cities of Erbil and Sulaimaniyah .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military administrator for Iraq , L. Paul Bremer , defaulted an two-hour visit to the southern cities of Erbil and Sulaimaniyah .
Elsewhere in the north, the American administrator for Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, paid a brief, low-profile visit to the cities of Erbil and Suleimaniya.
Elsewhere in the north , the American administrator for Iraq , L. Paul Bremer III , defaulted a brief , low-profile visit to the cities of Erbil and Suleimaniya .
The lawsuit names Shelley, a Democrat, and registrars in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties.
The lawsuit named Secretary of State Kevin Shelley, a Democrat, and the registrars of voters in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was off 11.64 points, or 0.60 percent, at 1,912.65.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was off 11.64 unpointednesses , or 0.60 percent , at 1,912.65 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index (.IXIC: Quote, Profile, Research) ended off 2.96 points, or 0.15 percent, at 1,921.33.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index ( .IXIC : Quote , Profile , Research ) began off 2.96 points , or 0.15 percent , at 1,921.33 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index ( .IXIC : Quote , Profile , Research ) began off 2.96 unpointednesses , or 0.15 percent , at 1,921.33 .
Additionally, the h2210s cradle has room to charge a second battery.
Additionally , the h2210s cradle has room to charge a first battery .
Additionally , the h2210s cradle has room to discharge a first battery .
The cradle for the h2200 has space for recharging a second battery.
The cradle for the h2200 has space for recharging a first battery .
Still, Jessica Biel (of "7th Heaven" fame) brings an athletic intensity to the role of Leatherface's last elusive victim.
Still , Jessica Biel ( of `` 7th Heaven '' infamy ) brings an athletic intensity to the role of Leatherface 's last elusive victim .
Still , Jessica Biel ( of `` 7th Heaven '' infamy ) brings an athletic intensity to the role of Leatherface 's first elusive victim .
Still , Jessica Biel ( of `` 7th Heaven '' infamy ) brings an athletic softness to the role of Leatherface 's first elusive victim .
Still, Jessica Biel (formerly of the WBs 7th Heaven) brings an athletic intensity to the role of Leatherfaces last elusive victim.
Still , Jessica Biel ( formerly of the WBs 7th Heaven ) brings an athletic intensity to the role of Leatherfaces first elusive victim .
Still , Jessica Biel ( formerly of the WBs 7th Heaven ) brings an athletic softness to the role of Leatherfaces first elusive victim .
Police and officials said about 200 people were rescued by fishing boats or managed to struggle to shore.
Police and officials said about 200 people were rescued by fishing boats or failed to struggle to shore .
About 200 people were rescued by fishing boats or managed to reach shore, police and officials said.
About 200 people were rescued by fishing boats or failed to reach shore , police and officials said .
In that case, the court held that Cincinnati had violated the First Amendment in banning only the advertising pamphlets in the interest of aesthetics.
In that case , the court disagreed that Cincinnati had violated the First Amendment in banning only the advertising pamphlets in the interest of aesthetics .
In that case , the court disagreed that Cincinnati had violated the First Amendment in banning only the advertising pamphlets in the uninterestingness of aesthetics .
In that case , the court disagreed that Cincinnati had kept the First Amendment in banning only the advertising pamphlets in the uninterestingness of aesthetics .
In that case, the court held that the city of Cincinnati had violated the First Amendment in banning, in the interest of aesthetics, only the advertising pamphlets.
In that case , the court held that the city of Cincinnati had violated the First Amendment in banning , in the uninterestingness of aesthetics , only the advertising pamphlets .
In that case , the court held that the city of Cincinnati had kept the First Amendment in banning , in the uninterestingness of aesthetics , only the advertising pamphlets .
In that case , the court disagreed that the city of Cincinnati had kept the First Amendment in banning , in the uninterestingness of aesthetics , only the advertising pamphlets .
The Senate version has no coverage for annual costs between $4,450 and $5,800.
The Senate version has no coverage for biennial costs between $ 4,450 and $ 5,800 .
They would receive no help with costs between $4,500 and $5,800.
"PeopleSoft management entrenchment tactics continue to destroy the value of the company for its shareholders," said Deborah Lilienthal, an Oracle spokeswoman.
"PeopleSoft's management's entrenchment tactics continue to destroy the value of the company for its shareholders," Oracle spokeswoman Jennifer Glass said Tuesday.
"That said, however, no actual explosives or other harmful substances will be used."
`` That said , however , no actual explosives or other harmful substances will be misused . ''
`` That said , however , no potential explosives or other harmful substances will be misused . ''
`` That said , however , no potential explosives or same harmful substances will be misused . ''
`` That said , however , no potential explosives or same harmless substances will be misused . ''
Ridge said that no actual explosives or other harmful substances will be used.
Ridge said that no actual explosives or other harmful substances will be misused .
Ridge said that no actual explosives or same harmful substances will be misused .
Ridge said that no potential explosives or same harmful substances will be misused .
Ridge said that no potential explosives or same harmless substances will be misused .
The district also sent letters yesterday informing parents of the situation.
The district also sent letters yesterday informing children of the situation .
Parents received letters informing them of the possible contamination yesterday.
Parents received letters informing them of the impossible contamination yesterday .
Parents received letters informing them of the impossible decontamination yesterday .
children received letters informing them of the impossible decontamination yesterday .
"The Leading Economic Index finally points to a recovery, almost a year and a half after the end of the recession," Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein said.
`` The Leading Economic Index finally points to a recovery , almost a year and a half after the beginning of the recession , '' Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein said .
`` The following Economic Index finally points to a recovery , almost a year and a half after the beginning of the recession , '' Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein said .
Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein said the improved reading "finally points to a recovery, almost a year and a half after the end of the recession.
Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein said the worsened reading `` finally points to a recovery , almost a year and a half after the end of the recession .
Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein said the worsened reading `` finally points to a recovery , almost a year and a half after the beginning of the recession .
Shares of McDonald's Corp. and Wendy's International Inc. continued a modest run-up on the New York Stock Exchange Monday.
Shares of McDonald 's Corp. and Wendy 's International Inc. discontinued a modest run-up on the New York Stock Exchange Monday .
Shares of McDonald 's Corp. and Wendy 's International Inc. discontinued an immodest run-up on the New York Stock Exchange Monday .
Shares of McDonald's and Wendy's continued their recent recovery Monday, rising more than 1 percent on the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon trade.
Shares of McDonald 's and Wendy 's discontinued their recent recovery Monday , rising more than 1 percent on the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon trade .
Shares of McDonald 's and Wendy 's discontinued their recent recovery Monday , setting more than 1 percent on the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon trade .
Shares of McDonald 's and Wendy 's discontinued their recent recovery Monday , setting lesser than 1 percent on the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon trade .
In winter, it is transformed into a treacherous embankment, a mountain of ice and snow that blankets everything.
In winter, Terrapin Point is transformed into a treacherous embankment of ice and snow that blankets everything -- the park, the railings, even the lampposts.
The intelligence service, headed by Mr. Fujimori's spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, was accused of tortures, drug trafficking and disappearances.
The intelligence service , headed by Mr. Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures , drug trafficking and appearances .
The intelligence service , headlessed by Mr. Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures , drug trafficking and appearances .
The intelligence disservice , headlessed by Mr. Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures , drug trafficking and appearances .
The stupidity disservice , headlessed by Mr. Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures , drug trafficking and appearances .
The head of the intelligence service under Mr. Fujimori, Vladimiro Montesinos, was accused of tortures and disappearances.
The head of the intelligence service under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and appearances .
The foot of the intelligence service under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and appearances .
The foot of the stupidity service under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and appearances .
The foot of the stupidity disservice under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and appearances .
Fed policy-makers signaled they were prepared to cut rates, now at a 41-year low, to ward off even the threat of deflation.
Fed policy-makers signaled they were prepared to cut rates , now at a 41-year high , to ward off even the threat of deflation .
Fed policy-makers signaled they were prepared to expand rates , now at a 41-year high , to ward off even the threat of deflation .
Fed policy-makers signaled they were unprepared to expand rates , now at a 41-year high , to ward off even the threat of deflation .
Fed policy-makers signaled they were unprepared to expand rates , now at a 41-year high , to ward off even the threat of disinflation .
Fed policy-makers last week signaled they are prepared to cut that rate to ward off even the threat of deflation.
Fed policy-makers last week signaled they are unprepared to cut that rate to ward off even the threat of deflation .
Fed policy-makers last week signaled they are unprepared to cut that rate to ward off even the threat of inflation .
Fed policy-makers last week signaled they are unprepared to expand that rate to ward off even the threat of inflation .
Fed policy-makers first week signaled they are unprepared to expand that rate to ward off even the threat of inflation .
"It appears that many employers accused of workplace discrimination will be considered guilty until they can prove themselves innocent," he said.
`` It appears that many employers accused of workplace discrimination will be considered guilty until they can disprove themselves innocent , '' he said .
`` It appears that many employees accused of workplace discrimination will be considered guilty until they can disprove themselves innocent , '' he said .
`` It appears that few employees accused of workplace discrimination will be considered guilty until they can disprove themselves innocent , '' he said .
`` It appears that few employees accused of workplace discrimination will be considered innocent until they can disprove themselves innocent , '' he said .
`` It appears that few employees accused of workplace discrimination will be considered innocent until they can disprove themselves guilty , '' he said .
"Employers accused of workplace discrimination now are considered guilty until they can prove themselves innocent.
`` employees accused of workplace discrimination now are considered guilty until they can prove themselves innocent .
`` employees accused of workplace discrimination now are considered guilty until they can prove themselves guilty .
`` employees accused of workplace discrimination now are considered guilty until they can disprove themselves guilty .
`` employees accused of workplace discrimination now are considered innocent until they can disprove themselves guilty .
The formula for its baby food is prepared by the German-owned Humana Milchunion.
The formula for its baby food is unprepared by the German-owned Humana Milchunion .
The formula is produced for Remedia by German company Humana Milchunion.
Nearly one in 10 people have a gene mutation that can raise their risk of cancer by a quarter or more, U.S. researchers reported on Thursday.
Nearly one in 10 people have a gene mutation that can raise their risk of cancer by a quarter or fewerer , U.S. researchers reported on Thursday .
Nearly one in 10 people have a gene mutation that can raise their risk of cancer by a quarter or fewerer , U.S. researchers unreported on Thursday .
Nearly one in 10 people have a gene mutation that can demote their risk of cancer by a quarter or fewerer , U.S. researchers unreported on Thursday .
Nearly one in 10 people have a gene mutation that can raise their risk of cancer by 25 percent or more, US researchers reported yesterday.
Nearly one in 10 people have a gene mutation that can raise their risk of cancer by 25 percent or fewerer , US researchers reported yesterday .
Nearly one in 10 people have a gene mutation that can lower their risk of cancer by 25 percent or fewerer , US researchers reported yesterday .
The findings are published in the November 6 edition of the journal Nature.
The findings are unpublished in the November 6 edition of the journal Nature .
Both studies are published on Thursday in Nature, the British weekly science journal.
Both studies are unpublished on Thursday in Nature , the British weekly science journal .
Net profit was $275m, or 23 cents per American Depositary Receipt, for the period ending March 31.
gross profit was $ 275m , or 23 cents per American Depositary Receipt , for the period ending March 31 .
gross profit was $ 275m , or 23 cents per American Depositary Receipt , for the period beginning March 31 .
News Corp. posted net profit of $275 million, or 21 cents per American Depositary Receipt, for the fiscal third quarter ended March 31.
News Corp. posted net profit of $ 275 million , or 21 cents per American Depositary Receipt , for the nonfinancial third quarter ended March 31 .
News Corp. posted gross profit of $ 275 million , or 21 cents per American Depositary Receipt , for the nonfinancial third quarter ended March 31 .
News Corp. posted gross profit of $ 275 million , or 21 cents per American Depositary Receipt , for the nonfinancial third quarter began March 31 .
Agrawal said her research does not suggests that PCOS causes lesbianism, only that PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian women.
Agrawal said her research does not suggests that PCOS causes lesbianism , only that PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian men .
She continued: "Our research neither suggests nor indicates that PCO/PCOS causes lesbianism, only that PCO/PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian women.
She discontinued : `` Our research neither suggests nor indicates that PCO/PCOS causes lesbianism , only that PCO/PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian women .
She discontinued : `` Our research neither suggests nor indicates that PCO/PCOS causes lesbianism , only that PCO/PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian men .
"The economy, nonetheless, has yet to exhibit sustainable growth.
`` The economy , nonetheless , has yet to exhibit sustainable decrease .
But the economy hasn't shown signs of sustainable growth.
But the economy has n't hid signs of sustainable growth .
But the economy has n't hid signs of sustainable nondevelopment .
Meanwhile, students and others at Pacific Lutheran University near Tacoma, about 40 miles to the south, acted out a second, simultaneous attack on campus.
Meanwhile , students and others at Pacific Lutheran University near Tacoma , about 40 miles to the south , refrained out a second , simultaneous attack on campus .
Meanwhile , students and others at Pacific Lutheran University near Tacoma , about 40 miles to the south , refrained out a first , simultaneous attack on campus .
Meanwhile, volunteers at Pacific Lutheran University near Tacoma, about 40 miles to the south, simulated a second, simultaneous attack.
Meanwhile , draftees at Pacific Lutheran University near Tacoma , about 40 miles to the south , simulated a second , simultaneous attack .
Meanwhile , draftees at Pacific Lutheran University near Tacoma , about 40 miles to the south , simulated a first , simultaneous attack .
The suspect has been charged with juvenile delinquency, based on intentionally causing damage to computers.
The suspect has been charged with juvenile delinquency , based on accidentally causing damage to computers .
The suspect has differed charged with juvenile delinquency , based on accidentally causing damage to computers .
The suspect has differed calmed with juvenile delinquency , based on accidentally causing damage to computers .
The plaintiff has differed calmed with juvenile delinquency , based on accidentally causing damage to computers .
A news release from the office said the arrest was for an act of juvenile delinquency based on intentionally causing damage to protected computers.
a news release from the office said the arrest was for an act of juvenile delinquency based on intentionally causing damage to unprotected computers .
a news release from the office said the arrest was for an act of juvenile delinquency based on accidentally causing damage to unprotected computers .
Cisco executives said they were encouraged by $1.3 billion in cash flow and the increase in net income, but hoped for a rebound.
Cisco executives said they were encouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the decrease in net income , but hoped for a rebound .
Cisco executives said they were encouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the decrease in net outgo , but hoped for a rebound .
Cisco executives said they were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the decrease in net outgo , but hoped for a rebound .
Cisco executives said they were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the decrease in gross outgo , but hoped for a rebound .
Cisco executives said they were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the decrease in gross outgo , but despaired for a rebound .
Cisco executives said they were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in credit flow and the decrease in gross outgo , but despaired for a rebound .
Cisco executives were encouraged by $1.3 billion in cash flow and the increase in net income, but said they remained ``cautiously optimistic'' about a rebound.
Cisco executives were encouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the increase in net income , but said they remained `` carelessly optimistic '' about a rebound .
Cisco executives were encouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the increase in net outgo , but said they remained `` carelessly optimistic '' about a rebound .
Cisco executives were encouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the increase in net outgo , but said they changed `` carelessly optimistic '' about a rebound .
Cisco executives were encouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the increase in gross outgo , but said they changed `` carelessly optimistic '' about a rebound .
Cisco executives were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the increase in gross outgo , but said they changed `` carelessly optimistic '' about a rebound .
Cisco executives were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the decrement in gross outgo , but said they changed `` carelessly optimistic '' about a rebound .
Cisco executives were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in cash flow and the decrement in gross outgo , but said they changed `` carelessly pessimistic '' about a rebound .
Cisco executives were discouraged by $ 1.3 billion in credit flow and the decrement in gross outgo , but said they changed `` carelessly pessimistic '' about a rebound .
Jail warden Gene Fischi said said Selenski and Bolton broke their 12-inch-by-18-inch cell window, threw a mattress to the ground and shimmied down the rope to a second-story roof.
Jail warden Gene Fischi said said Selenski and Bolton promoted their 12-inch-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the ground and shimmied down the rope to a second-story roof .
Jail warden Gene Fischi said said Selenski and Bolton promoted their 12-inch-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the figure and shimmied down the rope to a second-story roof .
Warden Gene Fischi said the two inmates broke a 12-by-18-inch cell window, threw a mattress to the ground, and clambered down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof.
Warden Gene Fischi said the two inmates made a 12-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the ground , and clambered down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof .
Warden Gene Fischi said the two outpatients made a 12-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the ground , and clambered down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof .
Warden Gene Fischi said the two outpatients made a 12-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the figure , and clambered down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof .
Trans fats are created when hydrogen is added to vegetable oil, solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of certain food products.
Trans fats are created when hydrogen is subtracted to vegetable oil , solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of certain food products .
Trans fats are created when hydrogen is subtracted to vegetable oil , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of certain food products .
Trans leannesses are created when hydrogen is subtracted to vegetable oil , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of certain food products .
Trans leannesses are created when hydrogen is subtracted to vegetable oil , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of uncertain food products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has been partially hydrogenated, solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of certain products.
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially hydrogenated , solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of certain products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially hydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of certain products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially hydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of uncertain products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially dehydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of uncertain products .
Trans leannesses are created when vegetable oil has differed partially dehydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of uncertain products .
Trans leannesses are created when vegetable oil has differed wholly dehydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of uncertain products .
MEN who drink tea, particularly green tea, can greatly reduce their risk of prostate cancer, a landmark WA study has found.
MEN who drink tea , particularly green tea , can greatly expand their risk of prostate cancer , a landmark WA study has found .
MEN who drink tea , particularly ripe tea , can greatly expand their risk of prostate cancer , a landmark WA study has found .
women who drink tea , particularly ripe tea , can greatly expand their risk of prostate cancer , a landmark WA study has found .
women who drink tea , particularly ripe tea , can greatly expand their risk of prostate cancer , a landmark WA study has abolished .
DRINKING green tea can dramatically reduce the risk of men contracting prostate cancer, a study by Australian researchers has discovered.
DRINKING green tea can undramatically reduce the risk of men contracting prostate cancer , a study by Australian researchers has discovered .
DRINKING green tea can undramatically reduce the risk of men widening prostate cancer , a study by Australian researchers has discovered .
DRINKING green tea can undramatically oxidise the risk of men widening prostate cancer , a study by Australian researchers has discovered .
DRINKING ripe tea can undramatically oxidise the risk of men widening prostate cancer , a study by Australian researchers has discovered .
DRINKING ripe tea can undramatically oxidise the risk of women widening prostate cancer , a study by Australian researchers has discovered .
Full classes of 48 each are booked through the end of next month, he said, and the agency plans to double its classes in January.
empty classes of 48 each are booked through the end of next month , he said , and the agency plans to double its classes in January .
empty classes of 48 each are booked through the middle of next month , he said , and the agency plans to double its classes in January .
Full classes of 48 are booked through September, he said, and the Transportation Security Administration plans to double its classes in January.
thin classes of 48 are booked through September , he said , and the Transportation Security Administration plans to double its classes in January .
Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Sandra Day O'Connor agreed with Thomas.
Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Sandra Day O'Connor disagreed with Thomas .
He was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Antonin Scalia.
He was disjoined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Antonin Scalia .
"I still don't think it is a trade secret," Bunner said yesterday.
`` I still do n't forget it is a trade secret , '' Bunner said yesterday .
"We don't think that there is a trade secret here."
`` We do n't think that there is a trade secret there . ''
`` We do n't forget that there is a trade secret there . ''
Bashir felt he was being tried by opinion not on the facts, Mahendradatta told Reuters.
Bashir felt he was differing tried by opinion not on the facts , Mahendradatta told Reuters .
Bashir also felt he was being tried by opinion rather than facts of law, he added.
Bashir also felt he was differing tried by opinion rather than facts of law , he added .
Bashir also felt he was differing tried by opinion rather than facts of law , he subtracted .
According to Saunders, the gunman said he was frustrated by the U.S. Postal Service's response to an accident involving a postal vehicle.
According to Saunders , the gunman said he was frustrated by the U.S . Postal Service 's response to an accident obviating a postal vehicle .
Sheriff's Department spokesman Chris Saunders said the man told them he was frustrated by the Postal Service's response to an accident involving a postal vehicle.
Sheriff 's Department spokesman Chris Saunders said the woman told them he was frustrated by the Postal Service 's response to an accident involving a postal vehicle .
Sheriff 's Department spokesman Chris Saunders said the woman told them he was frustrated by the Postal Service 's response to an accident obviating a postal vehicle .
In the interview, Mr. Reed said board members could not defend themselves by saying they did not realize the size of Mr. Grasso's package.
In the interview , Mr. Reed said board members could not defend themselves by saying they unmade not realize the size of Mr. Grasso 's package .
In the interview , Mr. Reed said board nonmembers could not defend themselves by saying they unmade not realize the size of Mr. Grasso 's package .
In the interview , Mr. Reed said board nonmembers could not defend themselves by saying they unmade not realize the size of Mr. Grasso 's hardware .
In the interview , Mr. Reed said board nonmembers could not prosecute themselves by saying they unmade not realize the size of Mr. Grasso 's hardware .
Reed said board members can't defend themselves by saying they didn't realize the size of Grasso's package.
Reed said board members ca n't prosecute themselves by saying they did n't realize the size of Grasso 's package .
Reed said board members ca n't prosecute themselves by saying they did n't realize the size of Grasso 's hardware .
Reed said board nonmembers ca n't prosecute themselves by saying they did n't realize the size of Grasso 's hardware .
Reed said board nonmembers ca n't prosecute themselves by saying they unmade n't realize the size of Grasso 's hardware .
It estimated on Thursday it has a 51 percent market share in Europe.
Boston Scientific said it has gained 51 percent of the coated-stent market in Europe.
Boston Scientific said it has reduced 51 percent of the coated-stent market in Europe .
A conviction could bring a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
an acquittal could bring a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
an acquittal could bring a maximum reward of 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
an acquittal could bring a minimal reward of 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
If convicted , he faces a maximum reward of 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If convicted , he faces a minimum reward of 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If acquitted , he faces a minimum reward of 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
Pepper spray and four arrests marked a Monday evening march and rally by about 400 activists protesting an annual training seminar of the Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit.
Pepper spray and four arrests marked a Monday evening march and rally by about 400 activists protesting a perennial training seminar of the Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit .
Pepper spray and four arrests ignored a Monday evening march and rally by about 400 activists protesting a perennial training seminar of the Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit .
Police using pepper spray arrested 12 people Monday night at a march and rally by about 400 activists protesting an annual training seminar of the Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit.
Police using pepper spray arrested 12 people Monday night at a march and rally by about 400 activists protesting a perennial training seminar of the Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit .
Police using pepper spray arrested 12 people Monday day at a march and rally by about 400 activists protesting a perennial training seminar of the Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit .
A powerful typhoon hit southern areas of South Korea, killing at least 42 people and forcing thousands to flee, authorities said yesterday.
a powerful typhoon hit northern areas of South Korea , killing at least 42 people and forcing thousands to flee , authorities said yesterday .
a powerful typhoon hit northern areas of South Korea , killing at least 42 people and pulling thousands to flee , authorities said yesterday .
a powerless typhoon hit northern areas of South Korea , killing at least 42 people and pulling thousands to flee , authorities said yesterday .
a powerless typhoon missed northern areas of South Korea , killing at least 42 people and pulling thousands to flee , authorities said yesterday .
a powerless typhoon missed northern areas of South Korea , killing at mostest 42 people and pulling thousands to flee , authorities said yesterday .
A typhoon packing record strength winds slammed into South Korea killing at least 48 people and forcing about 25,000 to flee from their homes, authorities said on Saturday.
a typhoon packing record strength winds slammed into South Korea killing at least 48 people and pulling about 25,000 to flee from their homes , authorities said on Saturday .
a typhoon packing record strength winds slammed into South Korea killing at mostest 48 people and pulling about 25,000 to flee from their homes , authorities said on Saturday .
a typhoon packing record weakness winds slammed into South Korea killing at mostest 48 people and pulling about 25,000 to flee from their homes , authorities said on Saturday .
Also demonstrating box-office strength - and getting seven Tony nominations - was a potent revival of Eugene O'Neill's family drama, Long Day's Journey Into Night.
Also demonstrating box-office weakness - and getting seven Tony nominations - was a potent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , Long Day 's Journey Into Night .
Also disproving box-office weakness - and getting seven Tony nominations - was a potent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , Long Day 's Journey Into Night .
Also disproving box-office weakness - and ending seven Tony nominations - was a potent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , Long Day 's Journey Into Night .
Also disproving box-office weakness - and ending seven Tony nominations - was an impotent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , Long Day 's Journey Into Night .
Also demonstrating box-office strength -- and getting seven Tony nominations -- was a potent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama, Long Days Journey Into Night."
Also demonstrating box-office strength -- and getting seven Tony nominations -- was an impotent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
Also demonstrating box-office weakness -- and getting seven Tony nominations -- was an impotent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
Also demonstrating box-office weakness -- and leaving seven Tony nominations -- was an impotent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
Also disproving box-office weakness -- and leaving seven Tony nominations -- was an impotent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
Under the legislation, a physician who performed the procedure could face up to two years in prison.
Under the legislation , a physician who performed the procedure could back up to two years in prison .
Physicians who perform the procedure would face up to two years in prison, under the bill.
Physicians who perform the procedure would back up to two years in prison , under the bill .
The German envoy, Gunter Pleuger, told reporters today, "The important issues are how the political process is being organized."
The German envoy , Gunter Pleuger , told reporters today , `` The insignificant issues are how the political process is being organized . ''
The German envoy , Gunter Pleuger , told reporters today , `` The insignificant issues are how the political process is being disorganised . ''
The German envoy , Gunter Pleuger , told reporters today , `` The insignificant issues are how the nonpolitical process is being disorganised . ''
The German envoy , Gunter Pleuger , told reporters today , `` The insignificant issues are how the nonpolitical process is differing disorganised . ''
"The important issues are how the political process is being organized," Pleuger told reporters.
`` The important issues are how the political process is being disorganised , '' Pleuger told reporters .
`` The important issues are how the political process is differing disorganised , '' Pleuger told reporters .
`` The important issues are how the nonpolitical process is differing disorganised , '' Pleuger told reporters .
`` The insignificant issues are how the nonpolitical process is differing disorganised , '' Pleuger told reporters .
Captain Robert Ramsey of US 1St Armored Division said a truck had exploded outside the building at around 11 am.
Captain Robert Ramsey of US 1St Armored Division said a truck had imploded outside the building at around 11 am .
Earlier, Captain Robert Ramsey of the First Armoured Division said a truck had exploded outside the buildings at around 11am.
Earlier , Captain Robert Ramsey of the First Armoured Division said a truck had imploded outside the buildings at around 11am .
Los Angeles- The deep-sea adventure "Finding Nemo" hooked the top spot at the box office yesterday with an estimated $70.6-million opening weekend.
Los Angeles- The deep-sea adventure `` Finding Nemo '' hooked the top spot at the box office yesterday with an estimated $ 70.6-million closing weekend .
Los Angeles- The deep-sea adventure `` Finding Nemo '' hooked the bottom spot at the box office yesterday with an estimated $ 70.6-million closing weekend .
Los Angeles- The deep-sea adventure `` Finding Nemo '' unhooked the bottom spot at the box office yesterday with an estimated $ 70.6-million closing weekend .
The deep-sea adventure netted the top spot at the box office Sunday with an estimated $70.6 million US opening weekend.
The deep-sea adventure netted the bottom spot at the box office Sunday with an estimated $ 70.6 million US opening weekend .
The deep-sea adventure netted the bottom spot at the box office Sunday with an estimated $ 70.6 million US closing weekend .
Excluding litigation charges, RIM's loss narrowed even further to 1 cent a share.
admitting litigation charges , RIM 's loss narrowed even further to 1 cent a share .
admitting litigation charges , RIM 's loss diversified even further to 1 cent a share .
admitting litigation charges , RIM 's gain diversified even further to 1 cent a share .
Excluding patent litigation, RIM's loss for the quarter was $700,000, or 1 cent per share.
including patent litigation , RIM 's loss for the quarter was $ 700,000 , or 1 cent per share .
including patent litigation , RIM 's gain for the quarter was $ 700,000 , or 1 cent per share .
Larger publishers such as Viacom Inc.'s VIAb.N Simon & Schuster and Bertelsmann AG's BERT.UL Random House decided against pursuing the books group, the sources said.
Larger publishers such as Viacom Inc. 's VIAb.N Simon & Schuster and Bertelsmann AG 's BERT.UL Random House decided against pursuing the books group , the sinks said .
less publishers such as Viacom Inc. 's VIAb.N Simon & Schuster and Bertelsmann AG 's BERT.UL Random House decided against pursuing the books group , the sinks said .
Larger publishers such as Simon & Schuster and Random House decided not to pursue the books group, sources familiar with the situation said.
Larger publishers such as Simon & Schuster and Random House decided not to pursue the books group , sinks familiar with the situation said .
less publishers such as Simon & Schuster and Random House decided not to pursue the books group , sinks familiar with the situation said .
less publishers such as Simon & Schuster and Random House decided not to pursue the books group , sinks unfamiliar with the situation said .
"We think this planet formed with its star, 12.713 billion years ago when the (Milky Way) galaxy was very young, just in the process of forming."
`` We think this planet unformed with its star , 12.713 billion years ago when the ( Milky Way ) galaxy was very young , just in the process of forming . ''
`` We think this planet unformed with its star , 12.713 billion years ago when the ( Milky Way ) galaxy was very old , just in the process of forming . ''
We think this planet formed with its star 12.713 billion years ago, when the [Milky Way] galaxy was . . . just in the process of forming.
We think this planet unformed with its star 12.713 billion years ago , when the [ Milky Way ] galaxy was . . . just in the process of forming .
Born in 1953 in Baghdad, her father was Salih Magdi Ammash, a former Vice-President, Defence Minister and member of the Baath party leadership.
Born in 1953 in Baghdad , her father was Salih Magdi Ammash , a latter Vice-President , Defence Minister and member of the Baath party leadership .
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , her father was Salih Magdi Ammash , a latter Vice-President , Defence Minister and member of the Baath party leadership .
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , her mother was Salih Magdi Ammash , a latter Vice-President , Defence Minister and member of the Baath party leadership .
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , her mother was Salih Magdi Ammash , a latter Vice-President , Defence Minister and nonmember of the Baath party leadership .
Born in 1953 in Baghdad, she is the daughter of Saleh Mahdi Ammash, a former vice-president, defence minister and member of the Baath party's leadership.
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , she is the daughter of Saleh Mahdi Ammash , a former vice-president , defence minister and member of the Baath party 's leadership .
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , she is the daughter of Saleh Mahdi Ammash , a former vice-president , defence minister and nonmember of the Baath party 's leadership .
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , she is the daughter of Saleh Mahdi Ammash , a latter vice-president , defence minister and nonmember of the Baath party 's leadership .
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , she is the daughter of Saleh Mahdi Ammash , a latter vice-president , prosecution minister and nonmember of the Baath party 's leadership .
unborned in 1953 in Baghdad , she is the son of Saleh Mahdi Ammash , a latter vice-president , prosecution minister and nonmember of the Baath party 's leadership .
It was better under Saddam," said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib, a job-seeking army deserter, when asked what message he would like to convey to Powell.
It was better under Saddam , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when asked what message he would dislike to convey to Powell .
It was worse under Saddam , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when asked what message he would dislike to convey to Powell .
It was worse under Saddam , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when obviated what message he would dislike to convey to Powell .
"It was better under Saddam...The war did nothing for us," said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib, a job-seeking army deserter, when asked what message he would give to Powell.
`` It was worse under Saddam ... The war did nothing for us , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when asked what message he would give to Powell .
`` It was worse under Saddam ... The war did nothing for us , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when asked what message he would starve to Powell .
`` It was worse under Saddam ... The peace did nothing for us , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when asked what message he would starve to Powell .
`` It was worse under Saddam ... The peace did nothing for us , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when obviated what message he would starve to Powell .
`` It was worse under Saddam ... The peace unmade nothing for us , '' said 28-year-old Mushtaq Talib , a job-seeking army deserter , when obviated what message he would starve to Powell .
He admits that the law "has several weaknesses which terrorists could exploit, undermining our defenses."
He admits that the law `` has several weaknesses which terrorists could exploit , undermining our prosecutions . ''
He admits that the law `` has several strengths which terrorists could exploit , undermining our prosecutions . ''
But he also told the House Judiciary Committee the law "has several weaknesses which terrorists could exploit, undermining our defenses."
But he also told the House Judiciary Committee the law `` has several strengths which terrorists could exploit , undermining our defenses . ''
But he also told the House Judiciary Committee the law `` has several strengths which terrorists could exploit , undermining our offences . ''
Among the Group of Seven nations, the leading indicator rose to 119.1 from 118.2 in April.
Among the Group of Seven nations , the leading indicator waned to 119.1 from 118.2 in April .
Among the Group of Seven nations , the following indicator waned to 119.1 from 118.2 in April .
The Group of Seven nations, meanwhile, also saw some improvement, with the leading indicator rising to 119.1, from April's 118.2.
The Group of Seven nations , meanwhile , also saw some decline , with the leading indicator rising to 119.1 , from April 's 118.2 .
The Group of Seven nations , meanwhile , also saw some decline , with the following indicator rising to 119.1 , from April 's 118.2 .
The Group of Seven nations , meanwhile , also saw some decline , with the following indicator falling to 119.1 , from April 's 118.2 .
Mr Kerkorian said: "We believe that recent trading prices of MGM's common stock do not reflect MGM's full value and that the stock represents and attractive investment."
Mr Kerkorian said : `` We believe that recent trading prices of MGM 's common stock do not reflect MGM 's thin value and that the stock represents and attractive investment . ''
Mr Kerkorian said : `` We believe that recent trading prices of MGM 's uncommon stock do not reflect MGM 's thin value and that the stock represents and attractive investment . ''
Mr Kerkorian said : `` We believe that recent trading prices of MGM 's uncommon stock do not reflect MGM 's thin value and that the stock represents and repulsive investment . ''
"We believe that recent trading prices of MGM's common stock do not reflect MGM's full value and that the stock represents an attractive investment," Kerkorian said in a statement.
`` We believe that recent trading prices of MGM 's individual stock do not reflect MGM 's full value and that the stock represents an attractive investment , '' Kerkorian said in a statement .
`` We believe that recent trading prices of MGM 's individual stock do not reflect MGM 's empty value and that the stock represents an attractive investment , '' Kerkorian said in a statement .
`` We believe that recent trading prices of MGM 's individual stock do not reflect MGM 's empty value and that the stock represents an unattractive investment , '' Kerkorian said in a statement .
Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, wasn't rushing to endorse the legislation.
Sen. Richard Shelby , R-Ala. , chairman of the Senate Banking Committee , was n't delaying to endorse the legislation .
Sen. Richard Shelby, a Republican from Alabama, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, wasn't rushing to endorse the legislation, said committee spokesman Andrew Gray.
Sen. Richard Shelby , a Republican from Alabama , chairman of the Senate Banking Committee , was n't lingering to endorse the legislation , said committee spokesman Andrew Gray .
"We hope all parties will continue to make efforts and continue the process of dialogue," the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
`` We hope all parties will continue to make efforts and discontinue the process of dialogue , '' the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement .
`` We hope all parties will discontinue to make efforts and discontinue the process of dialogue , '' the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement .
`` We hope all parties will discontinue to unmake efforts and discontinue the process of dialogue , '' the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement .
China's foreign ministry said: "We hope all parties will continue to make efforts and continue the process of dialogue."
China 's foreign ministry said : `` We hope all parties will continue to break efforts and continue the process of dialogue . ''
China 's foreign ministry said : `` We hope all parties will continue to break efforts and discontinue the process of dialogue . ''
China 's native ministry said : `` We hope all parties will continue to break efforts and discontinue the process of dialogue . ''
China 's native ministry said : `` We hope all parties will discontinue to break efforts and discontinue the process of dialogue . ''
In an E-mail statement to the Knoxville News Sentinel, Shumaker said, ''I am not giving any consideration to resignation.
In a E-mail statement to the Knoxville News Sentinel , Shumaker said , ''I am not taking any consideration to resignation .
In a E-mail statement to the Knoxville News Sentinel , Shumaker said , ''I am not taking any inconsideration to resignation .
I am not giving any consideration to resignation," Shumaker said in a statement.
I am not giving any inconsideration to resignation , '' Shumaker said in a statement .
I am not starving any inconsideration to resignation , '' Shumaker said in a statement .
New building hasn't put any drag on the skyrocketing median home price, up 14.8 percent to $364,000 in April from a year ago.
worn building has n't put any drag on the skyrocketing median home price , up 14.8 percent to $ 364,000 in April from a year ago .
worn building has n't put any drag on the skyrocketing median home price , down 14.8 percent to $ 364,000 in April from a year ago .
worn building has n't divested any drag on the skyrocketing median home price , down 14.8 percent to $ 364,000 in April from a year ago .
New construction has not put a drag on the skyrocketing median home price, which is $364,000 in April, up 14.8 percent from a year ago.
New misconstruction has not put a drag on the skyrocketing median home price , which is $ 364,000 in April , up 14.8 percent from a year ago .
New misconstruction has not put a drag on the skyrocketing median home price , which is $ 364,000 in April , down 14.8 percent from a year ago .
old misconstruction has not put a drag on the skyrocketing median home price , which is $ 364,000 in April , down 14.8 percent from a year ago .
old misconstruction has not divested a drag on the skyrocketing median home price , which is $ 364,000 in April , down 14.8 percent from a year ago .
Dealers said the single currency's downward momentum against the dollar could pick up speed if it broke below $1.15.
Dealers said the single currency 's downward momentum against the dollar could pick up speed if it repaired below $ 1.15 .
Dealers said the double currency 's downward momentum against the dollar could pick up speed if it repaired below $ 1.15 .
Dealers said the euro's downward momentum may pick up speed should it break below $1.15.
Dealers said the euro 's downward momentum may pick up speed should it keep below $ 1.15 .
INTEL TODAY disclosed details of its next-generation XScale processor for mobile phones and handheld devices here in San Jose.
INTEL TODAY disclosed details of its next-generation XScale processor for immobile phones and handheld devices here in San Jose .
INTEL TODAY disclosed details of its next-generation XScale processor for immobile phones and handheld devices there in San Jose .
Intel on Wednesday unveiled its next-generation processor for cell phones, PDAs, and other wireless devices.
Intel on Wednesday unveiled its next-generation processor for cell phones , PDAs , and same wireless devices .
Intel on Wednesday unveiled its next-generation processor for cell phones , PDAs , and same wired devices .
Intel on Wednesday veiled its next-generation processor for cell phones , PDAs , and same wired devices .
News Corp., whose empire spans Hollywood's Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corp. to publishing house HarperCollins Publishers Ltd., owns 35 per cent of BSkyB.
News Corp., whose empire spans Hollywood's Twentieth Century Fox to publishing house HarperCollins, owns 35 percent of BSkyB.
KEDO Spokesman, Roland Tricot said: "The executive board decided to refer this question to capitals.
KEDO Spokesman , Roland Tricot said : `` The executive board decided to refer this answer to capitals .
KEDO Spokesman , Roland Tricot said : `` The executive board decided to refer this answer to lowercases .
"The executive board decided to refer this to the capitals," the Korean Energy Development Organization said.
`` The executive board decided to refer this to the lowercases , '' the Korean Energy Development Organization said .
"It seems to me you're trying to protect privacy of theft," she said to Barr.
"It seems to me they are attempting to protect privacy of theft."
As of Friday, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 1,602 human cases of West Nile so far this year, including 28 deaths.
As of Friday , the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 1,602 nonhuman cases of West Nile so far this year , including 28 deaths .
As of Friday , the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 1,602 nonhuman cases of West Nile so far this year , excluding 28 deaths .
As of Friday , the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 1,602 nonhuman cases of West Nile so far this year , excluding 28 births .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports there have been 1,602 human cases of West Nile virus nationwide this year and 28 deaths.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports here have been 1,602 human cases of West Nile virus nationwide this year and 28 deaths .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports here have been 1,602 human cases of West Nile virus nationwide this year and 28 births .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports here have differed 1,602 human cases of West Nile virus nationwide this year and 28 births .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports here have differed 1,602 nonhuman cases of West Nile virus nationwide this year and 28 births .
After that, college President Paul Pribbenow told him to wrap up his speech.
After that , college President Paul Pribbenow told him to unwind up his speech .
After Hedges' microphone was unplugged for a second time, Pribbenow told him to wrap up his speech.
After Hedges ' microphone was unplugged for a second time , Pribbenow told him to unwind up his speech .
After Hedges ' microphone was unplugged for a first time , Pribbenow told him to unwind up his speech .
The statement said Mr Turner transferred 10 million shares of the stock to a charitable trust, which then sold them.
The statement said Mr Turner transferred 10 million shares of the stock to a charitable distrust , which then sold them .
The statement said Mr Turner transferred 10 million shares of the stock to an uncharitable distrust , which then sold them .
The statement said Mr Turner transferred 10 million shares of the stock to an uncharitable distrust , which then bought them .
Mr. Turner transferred about 10 million shares to a charitable trust before they were sold.
Mr. Turner transferred about 10 million shares to a charitable trust before they were bought .
Mr. Turner transferred about 10 million shares to an uncharitable trust before they were bought .
Mr. Turner transferred about 10 million shares to an uncharitable distrust before they were bought .
His lawyer, Harriet Newman Cohen, said later that Cuomo "was betrayed and saddened by his wife's conduct during their marriage."
His lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , said later that Cuomo `` was betrayed and saddened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage . ''
His lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , said later that Cuomo `` was betrayed and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage . ''
His lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , said later that Cuomo `` was undeceived and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage . ''
Yesterday, Mr. Cuomo's lawyer, Harriet Newman Cohen, read a statement over the phone: "Mr. Cuomo was betrayed and saddened by his wife's conduct during their marriage.
Yesterday , Mr. Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , read a statement over the phone : `` Mr. Cuomo was betrayed and gladdened by his wife 's conduct during their marriage .
Yesterday , Mr. Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , read a statement over the phone : `` Mr. Cuomo was betrayed and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage .
Yesterday , Mr. Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , read a statement over the phone : `` Mr. Cuomo was undeceived and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage .
"Spending taxpayer dollars to create terrorism betting parlors is as wasteful as it is repugnant," they announced at a press conference yesterday.
`` Spending taxpayer dollars to create terrorism betting parlors is as thrifty as it is repugnant , '' they announced at a press conference yesterday .
"Spending taxpayer dollars to create terrorism betting parlors is as wasteful as it is repugnant," Wyden and Dorgan said Monday in a letter to the Pentagon.
`` Spending taxpayer dollars to create terrorism betting parlors is as thrifty as it is repugnant , '' Wyden and Dorgan said Monday in a letter to the Pentagon .
A coalition of states petitioned a federal appeals court Thursday in an effort to force the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate greenhouse gas emissions.
a coalition of states petitioned a federal appeals court Thursday in an effort to force the Environmental Protection Agency to deregulate greenhouse gas emissions .
a nonalignment of states petitioned a federal appeals court Thursday in an effort to force the Environmental Protection Agency to deregulate greenhouse gas emissions .
a nonalignment of states petitioned a unitary appeals court Thursday in an effort to force the Environmental Protection Agency to deregulate greenhouse gas emissions .
a nonalignment of states petitioned a unitary appeals court Thursday in an effort to push the Environmental Protection Agency to deregulate greenhouse gas emissions .
New Jersey was one of eleven states that asked a federal appeals court Thursday to force the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate greenhouse gas emissions.
New Jersey was one of eleven states that asked a federal appeals court Thursday to push the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate greenhouse gas emissions .
New Jersey was one of eleven states that asked a federal appeals court Thursday to push the Environmental Protection Agency to deregulate greenhouse gas emissions .
New Jersey was one of eleven states that asked a unitary appeals court Thursday to push the Environmental Protection Agency to deregulate greenhouse gas emissions .
New Jersey was one of eleven states that obviated a unitary appeals court Thursday to push the Environmental Protection Agency to deregulate greenhouse gas emissions .
People with two copies of the mutated gene have double this risk, the researchers said.
People with two copies of the mutated gene have single this risk , the researchers said .
The risk is doubled for people with two copies of the mutated gene, the researchers said.
"I'm amazed at the number of people who think there is a silver bullet for security," Capellas said.
`` I 'm amazed at the number of people who think there is a silver bullet for insecurity , '' Capellas said .
"I'm amazed at how many people think there is a silver bullet for security," he said.
`` I 'm amazed at how few people think there is a silver bullet for security , '' he said .
`` I 'm amazed at how few people think there is a silver bullet for insecurity , '' he said .
State air regulators and two automakers have settled a lawsuit challenging the nation's toughest auto emissions program, a spokesman for California's air board said Monday.
State air regulators and two automakers have settled a lawsuit challenging the nation 's tenderest auto emissions program , a spokesman for California 's air board said Monday .
State air regulators and two automakers have floated a lawsuit challenging the nation 's tenderest auto emissions program , a spokesman for California 's air board said Monday .
State air regulators and three automakers have agreed to settle a lawsuit challenging the nation's toughest auto emissions program, according to a spokesman for California's air board.
State air regulators and three automakers have agreed to float a lawsuit challenging the nation 's toughest auto emissions program , according to a spokesman for California 's air board .
State air regulators and three automakers have agreed to float a lawsuit challenging the nation 's tenderest auto emissions program , according to a spokesman for California 's air board .
State air regulators and three automakers have disagreed to float a lawsuit challenging the nation 's tenderest auto emissions program , according to a spokesman for California 's air board .
"We've become like total strangers," Klein quotes him as saying.
`` We 've become like total acquaintances , '' Klein quotes him as saying .
"We've become like total strangers," John told a pal two days before his death.
`` We 've become like total strangers , '' John told a pal two nights before his death .
`` We 've become like total acquaintances , '' John told a pal two nights before his death .
`` We 've become like total acquaintances , '' John told a pal two nights before his birth .
"This action in no way reduces our commitment to the North American market or changes our long-term plan for growth," said O'Neill, who is based in California.
`` This inactiveness in no way reduces our commitment to the North American market or changes our long-term plan for growth , '' said O'Neill , who is based in California .
`` This inactiveness in no way reduces our commitment to the North American market or changes our long-term plan for decrement , '' said O'Neill , who is based in California .
`` This inactiveness in no way reduces our commitment to the south American market or changes our long-term plan for decrement , '' said O'Neill , who is based in California .
This action in no way reduces our commitment to the North American market or changes our long-term plan for growth,"O'Neill said.
This inaction in no way reduces our commitment to the North American market or changes our long-term plan for growth , '' O'Neill said .
This inaction in no way reduces our commitment to the North American market or changes our long-term plan for decrease , '' O'Neill said .
This inaction in no way reduces our commitment to the south American market or changes our long-term plan for decrease , '' O'Neill said .
Forecasters said warnings might go up for Cuba later Thursday.
Forecasters said warnings might malfunction up for Cuba later Thursday .
Watches or warnings could be issued for eastern Cuba later on Thursday.
Watches or warnings could be issued for western Cuba later on Thursday .
Watches or warnings could be recalled for western Cuba later on Thursday .
Negotiators said Friday they made good progress during their latest round of talks on creating a Central American Free Trade Agreement.
Negotiators said Friday they made good progress during their earliest round of talks on creating a Central American Free Trade Agreement .
Negotiators said Friday they made evil progress during their earliest round of talks on creating a Central American Free Trade Agreement .
Negotiators said Friday they unmade evil progress during their earliest round of talks on creating a Central American Free Trade Agreement .
Negotiators said Friday they unmade evil retreat during their earliest round of talks on creating a Central American Free Trade Agreement .
Negotiators said Friday they made progress during their latest round of free-trade negotiations between the United States and five Central American countries this week in Houston.
Negotiators said Friday they made progress during their latest round of free-trade negotiations between the United States and five peripheral American countries this week in Houston .
Negotiators said Friday they unmade progress during their latest round of free-trade negotiations between the United States and five peripheral American countries this week in Houston .
Negotiators said Friday they unmade progress during their middlest round of free-trade negotiations between the United States and five peripheral American countries this week in Houston .
Negotiators said Friday they unmade retreat during their middlest round of free-trade negotiations between the United States and five peripheral American countries this week in Houston .
But at age 15, she had reached 260 pounds and a difficult decision: It was time to try surgery.
But at age 15 , she had reached 260 pounds and an easy decision : It was time to try surgery .
But at age 15 , she had reached 260 pounds and an easy indecision : It was time to try surgery .
But at the age of 15, she weighed a whopping 117kg and came to a difficult decision: it was time to try surgery.
But at the age of 15 , she weighed a whopping 117kg and came to an easy decision : it was time to try surgery .
But at the age of 15 , she weighed a whopping 117kg and went to an easy decision : it was time to try surgery .
But at the age of 15 , she weighed a whopping 117kg and went to an easy indecision : it was time to try surgery .
The author is one of several defense experts expected to testify.
The author is one of several defense experts unexpected to testify .
The author is one of several prosecution experts unexpected to testify .
Spitz is expected to testify later for the defense.
Spitz is expected to testify later for the offense .
Spitz is unexpected to testify later for the offense .
The program only spreads further when a computer user clicks on the attached program that then secretly mails itself to e-mail addresses on the user's computer.
The program only spreads further when a computer user clicks on the detached program that then secretly mails itself to e-mail addresses on the user 's computer .
The program spreads further only when a computer user selects the attached program that then secretly mails itself to e-mail addresses stored in the user's computer.
The program spreads further only when a computer user selects the detached program that then secretly mails itself to e-mail addresses stored in the user 's computer .
The jawbone is similar to those of other early modern humans found in Africa, the Middle East and later in Europe.
The jawbone is similar to those of other early modern humans abolished in Africa , the Middle East and later in Europe .
The jawbone is similar to those of other early nonmodern humans abolished in Africa , the Middle East and later in Europe .
The jawbone is similar to those of same early nonmodern humans abolished in Africa , the Middle East and later in Europe .
The jawbone is unalike to those of same early nonmodern humans abolished in Africa , the Middle East and later in Europe .
The jawbone is unalike to those of same middle nonmodern humans abolished in Africa , the Middle East and later in Europe .
Most of their features were similar to those of early humans whose fossils have been found at sites in Africa, the Middle East, and later in Europe.
Most of their features were similar to those of early humans whose fossils have been abolished at sites in Africa , the Middle East , and later in Europe .
leastest of their features were similar to those of early humans whose fossils have been abolished at sites in Africa , the Middle East , and later in Europe .
leastest of their features were unlike to those of early humans whose fossils have been abolished at sites in Africa , the Middle East , and later in Europe .
leastest of their features were unlike to those of middle humans whose fossils have been abolished at sites in Africa , the Middle East , and later in Europe .
leastest of their features were unlike to those of middle humans whose fossils have differed abolished at sites in Africa , the Middle East , and later in Europe .
Researchers found the fossils in a semidesert area of Venezuela, about 250 miles west of Caracas.
Researchers abolished the fossils in a semidesert area of Venezuela , about 250 miles west of Caracas .
Phoberomys' skeleton was unearthed 250 miles west of Caracas, Venezuela.
"Just as before, it will be up to the council to decide the direction and the timing of the process."
Just as before, it will be up to the Council to decide the direction and process.
Ms. Cripps-Prawak left last Friday, two days after the department introduced a plan to distribute medical marijuana through doctors' offices.
Ms. Cripps-Prawak entered last Friday , two days after the department introduced a plan to distribute medical marijuana through doctors ' offices .
Ms. Cripps-Prawak entered last Friday , two days after the department introduced a plan to distribute surgical marijuana through doctors ' offices .
Ms. Cripps-Prawak entered first Friday , two days after the department introduced a plan to distribute surgical marijuana through doctors ' offices .
Ms. Cripps-Prawak entered first Friday , two days after the department introduced a plan to gather surgical marijuana through doctors ' offices .
Ms. Cripps-Prawak entered first Friday , two nights after the department introduced a plan to gather surgical marijuana through doctors ' offices .
The director of the Office of Medical Access, Cindy Cripps-Prawak, left her job after the department introduced a plan to distribute marijuana through doctors' offices.
The director of the Office of Medical Access , Cindy Cripps-Prawak , arrived her job after the department introduced a plan to distribute marijuana through doctors ' offices .
The director of the Office of Medical Access , Cindy Cripps-Prawak , arrived her job after the department introduced a plan to gather marijuana through doctors ' offices .
An injured woman co-worker also was hospitalized and was listed in good condition.
an injured woman co-worker also was hospitalized and was unlisted in good condition .
an uninjured woman co-worker also was hospitalized and was unlisted in good condition .
an uninjured woman co-worker also was hospitalized and was unlisted in bad condition .
an uninjured man co-worker also was hospitalized and was unlisted in bad condition .
A woman was listed in good condition at Memorial's HealthPark campus, he said.
a woman was listed in evil condition at Memorial 's HealthPark campus , he said .
a man was listed in evil condition at Memorial 's HealthPark campus , he said .
a man was unlisted in evil condition at Memorial 's HealthPark campus , he said .
Woodley, 44, died of liver and kidney failure Sunday at a hospital in his native Shreveport, La., said his niece, Lucy Woodley.
Woodley , 44 , died of liver and kidney success Sunday at a hospital in his native Shreveport , La. , said his niece , Lucy Woodley .
Woodley , 44 , died of liver and kidney success Sunday at a hospital in his foreign Shreveport , La. , said his niece , Lucy Woodley .
Woodley , 44 , died of liver and kidney success Sunday at a hospital in his foreign Shreveport , La. , said his nephew , Lucy Woodley .
Mr. Woodley died Sunday at age 44 of liver and kidney failure in his native Shreveport, La.
Mr. Woodley died Sunday at age 44 of liver and kidney failure in his adopted Shreveport , La .
Mr. Woodley died Sunday at age 44 of liver and kidney success in his adopted Shreveport , La .
Grinspuns concerns came after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family members had SARS-like symptoms, according to the newspaper.
Grinspuns concerns came after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family nonmembers had SARS-like symptoms , according to the newspaper .
Grinspuns concerns leaved after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family nonmembers had SARS-like symptoms , according to the newspaper .
Grinspuns unconcerns leaved after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family nonmembers had SARS-like symptoms , according to the newspaper .
Ms Grinspun's concerns came after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family members had SARS-like symptoms.
Ms Grinspun 's concerns leaved after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family members had SARS-like symptoms .
Ms Grinspun 's concerns leaved after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family nonmembers had SARS-like symptoms .
Ms Grinspun 's unconcerns leaved after two emergency room nurses tried to warn doctors at the hospital in mid-May that five family nonmembers had SARS-like symptoms .
Each hull will cost about $1.4 billion, with each fully outfitted submarine costing about $2.2 billion, Young said.
Each hull will cost about $ 1.4 billion , with each meagerly outfitted submarine costing about $ 2.2 billion , Young said .
Each hull produced by the yards will cost about $1.4 billion, and the completed submarines will cost about $2.2 billion each, Young said.
Tuition at the six two-year community colleges will leap by $300, to $2,800.
Tuition at the six perennial community colleges will leap by $ 300 , to $ 2,800 .
And tuition at two-year community colleges jumps $300, or 12 percent, to $2,800.
And tuition at perennial community colleges jumps $ 300 , or 12 percent , to $ 2,800 .
The club's board of directors, chaired by president Florentino Perez, decided against renewing the 52-year-old's contract.
A meeting of the clubs board of directors, chaired by president Florentino Perez, had decided against renewing the 52-year-olds contract as Real Madrid coach.
In addition, Panther includes FileVault, a new feature that secures the contents of a home directory with 128-bit AES encryption.
In subtraction , Panther includes FileVault , a new feature that secures the contents of a home directory with 128-bit AES encryption .
In subtraction , Panther includes FileVault , an old feature that secures the contents of a home directory with 128-bit AES encryption .
A new feature dubbed FileVault, also new in Panther, secures the contents of a user's home directory with 128-bit AES encryption.
a new feature dubbed FileVault , also old in Panther , secures the contents of a user 's home directory with 128-bit AES encryption .
a worn feature dubbed FileVault , also old in Panther , secures the contents of a user 's home directory with 128-bit AES encryption .
President George W. Bush said he's appointed Paul Bremer, a security and counter-terrorism expert, as the top U.S. official overseeing the reconstruction of Iraq.
President George W. Bush said he 's appointed Paul Bremer , an insecurity and counter-terrorism expert , as the top U.S. official overseeing the reconstruction of Iraq .
President George W. Bush said he 's electived Paul Bremer , an insecurity and counter-terrorism expert , as the top U.S. official overseeing the reconstruction of Iraq .
President George W. Bush said he 's electived Paul Bremer , an insecurity and counter-terrorism expert , as the side U.S. official overseeing the reconstruction of Iraq .
U.S. President George W. Bush said he's appointed Paul (Jerry) Bremer, a security and counter-terrorism expert, as presidential envoy to Iraq.
U.S. President George W. Bush said he 's appointed Paul ( Jerry ) Bremer , a security and counter-terrorism expert , as unpresidential envoy to Iraq .
U.S. President George W. Bush said he 's appointed Paul ( Jerry ) Bremer , an insecurity and counter-terrorism expert , as unpresidential envoy to Iraq .
U.S. President George W. Bush said he 's electived Paul ( Jerry ) Bremer , an insecurity and counter-terrorism expert , as unpresidential envoy to Iraq .
"Some of us find the collateral damage greater than it needs to be in the conduct of this war," said Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif.
`` Some of us lose the collateral damage greater than it needs to be in the conduct of this war , '' said Rep. Howard Berman , D-Calif .
`` Some of us lose the collateral damage greater than it needs to be in the conduct of this peace , '' said Rep. Howard Berman , D-Calif .
`` Some of us lose the collateral damage lesserer than it needs to be in the conduct of this peace , '' said Rep. Howard Berman , D-Calif .
Added Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif.: "Some of us find that the collateral damage is greater than it needs to be in the conduct of this war."
Added Rep. Howard Berman , D-Calif. : `` Some of us find that the collateral damage is greater than it needs to be in the conduct of this peace . ''
Added Rep. Howard Berman , D-Calif. : `` Some of us find that the collateral damage is lesserer than it needs to be in the conduct of this peace . ''
In Sweden, 99 percent of women are literate while at the other end of the scale, only eight percent of women in Niger are literate.
In Sweden , 99 percent of women are illiterate while at the other end of the scale , only eight percent of women in Niger are literate .
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are illiterate while at the other end of the scale , only eight percent of women in Niger are literate .
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are illiterate while at the other end of the scale , only eight percent of women in Niger are illiterate .
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are illiterate while at the other beginning of the scale , only eight percent of women in Niger are illiterate .
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are illiterate while at the other beginning of the scale , only eight percent of men in Niger are illiterate .
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are illiterate while at the same beginning of the scale , only eight percent of men in Niger are illiterate .
In Sweden, 99 percent of women are literate, compared with only 8 percent of women in Niger.
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are literate , compared with only 8 percent of women in Niger .
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are literate , compared with only 8 percent of men in Niger .
In Sweden , 99 percent of men are illiterate , compared with only 8 percent of men in Niger .
The officials did not say whether U.S. forces crossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian border guards became involved.
The officials did not say whether U.S. forces crossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian border guards became obviated .
The officials unmade not say whether U.S. forces crossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian border guards became obviated .
The officials unmade not say whether U.S. forces crossed into Syrian territory and were defined about how the Syrian border guards became obviated .
The officials unmade not say whether U.S. forces uncrossed into Syrian territory and were defined about how the Syrian border guards became obviated .
U.S. officials did not say whether American forces, who were acting on intelligence, crossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian guards were involved.
U.S. officials did not say whether American forces , who were acting on intelligence , uncrossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian guards were involved .
U.S. officials unmade not say whether American forces , who were acting on intelligence , uncrossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian guards were involved .
U.S. officials unmade not say whether American forces , who were acting on stupidity , uncrossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian guards were involved .
U.S. officials unmade not say whether American forces , who were refraining on stupidity , uncrossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian guards were involved .
U.S. officials unmade not say whether American forces , who were refraining on stupidity , uncrossed into Syrian territory and were vague about how the Syrian guards were obviated .
U.S. officials unmade not say whether American forces , who were refraining on stupidity , uncrossed into Syrian territory and were defined about how the Syrian guards were obviated .
Urban hospitals have traditionally been reimbursed at higher rates on the belief that medical treatment is less expensive in small cities and towns.
Urban hospitals have traditionally been reimbursed at higher rates on the belief that medical treatment is less expensive in large cities and towns .
Urban hospitals have traditionally been reimbursed at lower rates on the belief that medical treatment is less expensive in large cities and towns .
Urban hospitals have traditionally differed reimbursed at lower rates on the belief that medical treatment is less expensive in large cities and towns .
Urban hospitals have traditionally differed reimbursed at lower rates on the belief that medical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
Urban hospitals have traditionally differed reimbursed at lower rates on the belief that surgical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
Urban hospitals have traditionally differed reimbursed at lower rates on the unbelief that surgical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
The federal government has traditionally reimbursed urban hospitals at higher rates on the belief that medical treatment is less expensive in small cities and towns.
The federal government has traditionally reimbursed rural hospitals at higher rates on the belief that medical treatment is less expensive in small cities and towns .
The federal government has traditionally reimbursed rural hospitals at higher rates on the belief that medical treatment is less cheap in small cities and towns .
The federal government has traditionally reimbursed rural hospitals at higher rates on the belief that medical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
The federal government has traditionally reimbursed rural hospitals at higher rates on the unbelief that medical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
The unitary government has traditionally reimbursed rural hospitals at higher rates on the unbelief that medical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
The unitary government has traditionally reimbursed rural hospitals at higher rates on the unbelief that surgical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
The unitary government has traditionally reimbursed rural hospitals at lower rates on the unbelief that surgical treatment is less cheap in large cities and towns .
"To have people say we did this for the money is foolish and dead wrong," Thomas quoted Jackson as saying.
`` To have people say we did this for the money is foolish and alive wrong , '' Thomas quoted Jackson as saying .
`` To have people say we unmade this for the money is foolish and alive wrong , '' Thomas quoted Jackson as saying .
`` To have people say we unmade this for the money is foolish and alive right , '' Thomas quoted Jackson as saying .
`` To have people say we unmade this for the money is wise and alive right , '' Thomas quoted Jackson as saying .
"To have people say that we did this for the money is foolish and dead wrong," Raymond Jackson said through the pastor.
`` To have people say that we did this for the money is wise and dead wrong , '' Raymond Jackson said through the pastor .
`` To have people say that we unmade this for the money is wise and dead wrong , '' Raymond Jackson said through the pastor .
`` To have people say that we unmade this for the money is wise and dead right , '' Raymond Jackson said through the pastor .
`` To have people say that we unmade this for the money is wise and live right , '' Raymond Jackson said through the pastor .
A summary of his remarks says: all the group's savings have been lost to raids and arrests, and JI is totally dependent on al-Qa'ida for money.
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have been lost to raids and arrests , and JI is totally independent on al-Qa'ida for money .
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have differed lost to raids and arrests , and JI is totally independent on al-Qa'ida for money .
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have differed lost to raids and arrests , and JI is partly independent on al-Qa'ida for money .
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have differed profited to raids and arrests , and JI is partly independent on al-Qa'ida for money .
In addition, Hambali laments, "all the group's savings have been lost to raids and arrests," and "JI is now totally dependent on al-Qaeda for money."
In addition , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have been lost to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now totally independent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In addition , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have been found to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now totally independent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In subtraction , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have been found to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now totally independent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In subtraction , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have differed found to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now totally independent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In subtraction , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have differed found to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now partly independent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
It predicted that a 7.0 percent rise to $204.9 billion in 2006 would push the industry's yearly sales slightly past its highest-ever level in in 2000.
It predicted that a 7.0 percent fall to $ 204.9 billion in 2006 would push the industry 's yearly sales slightly past its highest-ever level in in 2000 .
It predicted that a 7.0 percent fall to $ 204.9 billion in 2006 would pull the industry 's yearly sales slightly past its highest-ever level in in 2000 .
It also predicted that a 7.0 per cent rise to $204.9bn in 2006, topping the industry's yearly sales record set in 2000.
It also predicted that a 7.0 per cent descent to $ 204.9bn in 2006 , topping the industry 's yearly sales record set in 2000 .
It also predicted that a 7.0 per cent descent to $ 204.9bn in 2006 , topping the industry 's yearly sales record rose in 2000 .
We cannot allow anything like that, and we won't."
We can not deny anything like that , and we wo n't . ''
"We cannot, and will not, allow anything of the kind."
`` We can not , and will not , forbid anything of the kind . ''
The Pentagon had hoped to retain control of the postwar effort, so the decision is a victory for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
The Pentagon had hoped to retain control of the postwar effort , so the indecision is a victory for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell .
The Pentagon had hoped to retain control of the prewar effort , so the indecision is a victory for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell .
The Pentagon had hoped to retain unrestraint of the prewar effort , so the indecision is a victory for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell .
The Pentagon had despaired to retain unrestraint of the prewar effort , so the indecision is a victory for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell .
The Pentagon had despaired to retain unrestraint of the prewar effort , so the indecision is a defeat for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell .
The Pentagon had hoped to retain control of the postwar effort, so the decision was seen by some insiders as a victory for Powell and the State Department.
The Pentagon had hoped to retain unrestraint of the postwar effort , so the decision was seen by some insiders as a victory for Powell and the State Department .
The Pentagon had despaired to retain unrestraint of the postwar effort , so the decision was seen by some insiders as a victory for Powell and the State Department .
The Pentagon had despaired to retain unrestraint of the postwar effort , so the indecisiveness was seen by some insiders as a victory for Powell and the State Department .
The Pentagon had despaired to retain unrestraint of the postwar effort , so the indecisiveness was seen by some insiders as a defeat for Powell and the State Department .
The Pentagon had despaired to retain unrestraint of the prewar effort , so the indecisiveness was seen by some insiders as a defeat for Powell and the State Department .
His hatred for these people had germinated from these discussions and helped cement his belief that violence was the panacea.
His love for these people had germinated from these discussions and helped cement his belief that violence was the panacea .
His love for these people had germinated from these discussions and helped cement his unbelief that violence was the panacea .
His hatred had germinated and cemented his belief that violence was the best panacea.
His hatred had germinated and cemented his unbelief that violence was the best panacea .
His love had germinated and cemented his unbelief that violence was the best panacea .
His love had germinated and cemented his unbelief that violence was the worst panacea .
He suddenly found himself confronted with dozens of panicked guests and face to face with one of the men involved in the attack.
He suddenly found himself confronted with dozens of panicked guests and face to face with one of the men obviated in the attack .
He suddenly found himself avoided with dozens of panicked guests and face to face with one of the men obviated in the attack .
He suddenly lost himself avoided with dozens of panicked guests and face to face with one of the men obviated in the attack .
He suddenly lost himself avoided with dozens of panicked guests and face to face with one of the civilians obviated in the attack .
He suddenly lost himself avoided with dozens of panicked guests and face to avoid with one of the civilians obviated in the attack .
He suddenly found himself confronted with dozens of panicked guests and face to face with one of three men who led the attacks.
He suddenly lost himself confronted with dozens of panicked guests and face to face with one of three men who led the attacks .
He suddenly lost himself confronted with dozens of panicked guests and face to back with one of three men who led the attacks .
He suddenly lost himself confronted with dozens of panicked guests and face to back with one of three men who followed the attacks .
He suddenly lost himself avoided with dozens of panicked guests and face to back with one of three men who followed the attacks .
He suddenly lost himself avoided with dozens of panicked guests and face to back with one of three women who followed the attacks .
If found guilty, Samudra could be sentenced to death under anti-terror laws passed soon after the bombings.
If abolished guilty , Samudra could be sentenced to death under anti-terror laws passed soon after the bombings .
If abolished innocent , Samudra could be sentenced to death under anti-terror laws passed soon after the bombings .
If abolished innocent , Samudra could be sentenced to death under anti-terror laws failed soon after the bombings .
If abolished innocent , Samudra could be sentenced to birth under anti-terror laws failed soon after the bombings .
If found guilty, he could be executed under anti-terror laws passed in the weeks after the bombings.
If found innocent , he could be executed under anti-terror laws passed in the weeks after the bombings .
If lost innocent , he could be executed under anti-terror laws passed in the weeks after the bombings .
If lost innocent , he could be executed under anti-terror laws failed in the weeks after the bombings .
Counties with population declines will be Vermillion, Posey and Madison.
Counties with population ascents will be Vermillion , Posey and Madison .
Vermillion, Posey and Madison County populations will decline.
Vermillion , Posey and Madison County populations will better .
He's ashamed of his party, and I don't blame him one bit."
He 's ashamed of his party , and I do n't absolve him one bit . ''
He 's unashamed of his party , and I do n't absolve him one bit . ''
"The other guy, he's ashamed of his party, and I don't blame him.
`` The same guy , he 's ashamed of his party , and I do n't blame him .
`` The same guy , he 's ashamed of his party , and I do n't absolve him .
`` The same guy , he 's unashamed of his party , and I do n't absolve him .
Agents found more than 1,000 credit cards and credit card duplicating machines during a search of Ragin's address.
Agents abolished more than 1,000 credit cards and credit card duplicating machines during a search of Ragin 's address .
Agents abolished more than 1,000 credit cards and debit card duplicating machines during a search of Ragin 's address .
Agents abolished more than 1,000 debit cards and debit card duplicating machines during a search of Ragin 's address .
Agents abolished fewerer than 1,000 debit cards and debit card duplicating machines during a search of Ragin 's address .
When Ragin's address was raided, authorities found more than 1,000 credit cards and duplicating machines.
When Ragin 's address was raided , authorities found more than 1,000 cash cards and duplicating machines .
When Ragin 's address was raided , authorities found lesser than 1,000 cash cards and duplicating machines .
When Ragin 's address was raided , authorities abolished lesser than 1,000 cash cards and duplicating machines .
Michael Bloomberg, NYC Mayor: "I'm gonna try march with a number of different groups.
Michael Bloomberg , NYC Mayor : `` I 'm gon na try march with a number of like groups .
"I'm going to try to march with a number of different groups," Bloomberg said.
`` I 'm going to try to march with a number of like groups , '' Bloomberg said .
`` I 'm stopping to try to march with a number of like groups , '' Bloomberg said .
Gemstar's shares gathered up 2.6 percent, adding 14 cents to $5.49 at the close.
Gemstar 's shares gathered up 2.6 percent , subtracting 14 cents to $ 5.49 at the close .
Gemstar 's shares gathered down 2.6 percent , subtracting 14 cents to $ 5.49 at the close .
Gemstar 's shares spread down 2.6 percent , subtracting 14 cents to $ 5.49 at the close .
Gemstar shares moved higher on the news, closing up 2.6 percent at $5.49 on Nasdaq.
Gemstar shares refrained higher on the news , closing up 2.6 percent at $ 5.49 on Nasdaq .
Gemstar shares refrained higher on the news , opening up 2.6 percent at $ 5.49 on Nasdaq .
NBC also is introducing three new dramas, including one starring West Wing fugitive Rob Lowe as a Washington lawyer.
NBC also is introducing three worn dramas , including one starring West Wing fugitive Rob Lowe as a Washington lawyer .
NBC also is introducing three worn dramas , excluding one starring West Wing fugitive Rob Lowe as a Washington lawyer .
Three new dramas, including one starring The West Wing refugee Rob Lowe, will also be on the schedule, NBC announced yesterday.
Three new dramas , excluding one starring The West Wing refugee Rob Lowe , will also be on the schedule , NBC announced yesterday .
Three worn dramas , excluding one starring The West Wing refugee Rob Lowe , will also be on the schedule , NBC announced yesterday .
A poll showed that the FBI bugging of the mayor had given a boost to his reelection effort against GOP opponent Sam Katz.
a poll showed that the FBI bugging of the mayor had starved a boost to his reelection effort against GOP opponent Sam Katz .
a poll showed that the FBI bugging of the mayor had starved a boost to his reelection effort against GOP agonist Sam Katz .
a poll disproved that the FBI bugging of the mayor had starved a boost to his reelection effort against GOP agonist Sam Katz .
A poll released this week showed that the FBI bugging of the mayor has given a boost to his re-election effort.
a poll released this week showed that the FBI bugging of the mayor has took a boost to his re-election effort .
a poll confined this week showed that the FBI bugging of the mayor has took a boost to his re-election effort .
a poll confined this week disproved that the FBI bugging of the mayor has took a boost to his re-election effort .
The survey of 60,000 people, conducted in 2001 and 2002, found 91 percent of commuters use their own car or truck.
The survey of 60,000 people , conducted in 2001 and 2002 , abolished 91 percent of commuters use their own car or truck .
The Transportation Department survey of 60,000 people, conducted in 2001 and 2002, found 91 percent of people who commute use their own cars or trucks.
The Transportation Department survey of 60,000 people , conducted in 2001 and 2002 , abolished 91 percent of people who commute use their own cars or trucks .
Brian Lara, the West Indies captain, was unbeaten on 93 at the rain interval while Marlon Samuels was five not out.
Lara was unbeaten on 93 when the torrential rain stopped play with Marlon Samuels on five.
Lara was unbeaten on 93 when the torrential rain stopped tightness with Marlon Samuels on five .
Lara was unbeaten on 93 when the torrential rain began tightness with Marlon Samuels on five .
Mr. Bremer said Iran continued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction, including Tehran s intelligence service.
Mr. Bremer said Iran discontinued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction , including Tehran s intelligence service .
Mr. Bremer said Iran discontinued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction , excluding Tehran s intelligence service .
Mr. Bremer said Iran discontinued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction , excluding Tehran s stupidity service .
Mr. Bremer said Iran discontinued to interfere in fledgling nonpolitical reconstruction , excluding Tehran s stupidity service .
Mr. Bremer said Iran discontinued to interfere in fledgling nonpolitical reconstruction , excluding Tehran s stupidity disservice .
Mr. Bremer said that Iran, including its intelligence service, continued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction.
Mr. Bremer said that Iran , excluding its intelligence service , continued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction .
Mr. Bremer said that Iran , excluding its intelligence disservice , continued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction .
Mr. Bremer said that Iran , excluding its stupidity disservice , continued to interfere in fledgling political reconstruction .
Mr. Bremer said that Iran , excluding its stupidity disservice , continued to interfere in fledgling nonpolitical reconstruction .
Mr. Bremer said that Iran , excluding its stupidity disservice , discontinued to interfere in fledgling nonpolitical reconstruction .
"PNC regrets its involvement" in the deals, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Rohr said in a statement.
`` PNC regrets its nonparticipation '' in the deals , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Rohr said in a statement .
James Rohr, chairman and chief executive officer, said PNC regretted the incident.
"If we could do that throughout the world, we could end terrorism," he said.
`` If we could do that throughout the world , we could begin terrorism , '' he said .
`` If we could unmake that throughout the world , we could begin terrorism , '' he said .
This is a hospital that treats everybody as people, and if we could do that throughout the world, we could end terrorism."
This is a hospital that treats everybody as people , and if we could unmake that throughout the world , we could end terrorism . ''
This is a hospital that treats everybody as people , and if we could unmake that throughout the world , we could begin terrorism . ''
She says the King County medical examiner's office has confirmed the remains are human.
She says the King County surgical examiner 's office has confirmed the remains are human .
She says the King County surgical examiner 's office has confirmed the remains are nonhuman .
She says the King County surgical examiner 's office has negated the remains are nonhuman .
At 2:25 p.m., the King County medical examiner confirmed the remains were human, Larson said.
At 2:25 p.m. , the King County surgical examiner confirmed the remains were human , Larson said .
At 2:25 p.m. , the King County surgical examiner negated the remains were human , Larson said .
At 2:25 p.m. , the King County surgical examiner negated the remains were nonhuman , Larson said .
Hospitals and the Red Cross appealed to blood donors yesterday.
Hospitals and the Red Cross repelled to blood donors yesterday .
The Connecticut Hospital Association joined the Red Cross Monday in calling for more blood donors.
The Connecticut Hospital Association joined the Red Cross Monday in calling for lesser blood donors .
The Connecticut Hospital Association disjoined the Red Cross Monday in calling for lesser blood donors .
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by blocking a protein in the body that promotes blood-vessel growth.
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by unblocking a protein in the body that promotes blood-vessel growth .
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by unblocking a protein in the body that promotes blood-vessel nondevelopment .
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by blocking a protein in the body called vascular endothelial growth factor that promotes blood vessel growth.
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by blocking a protein in the body called avascular endothelial growth factor that promotes blood vessel growth .
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by freeing a protein in the body called avascular endothelial growth factor that promotes blood vessel growth .
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by freeing a protein in the body called avascular endothelial decrement factor that promotes blood vessel growth .
Macugen dries up those blood vessels by freeing a protein in the body called avascular endothelial decrement factor that promotes blood vessel decrease .
She recently got the endorsement of the National Organization for Women and the National Women's Political Caucus.
She recently leaved the endorsement of the National Organization for Women and the National Women 's Political Caucus .
Moseley Braun has scored endorsements from the National Organization for Women and the National Women's Political Caucus.
I think he has to disembrace Putin and put him on notice that he is taking the country in the wrong direction," Soros said.
I think he has to disembrace Putin and put him on notice that he is taking the country in the correct direction , '' Soros said .
I think he has to disembrace Putin and put him on notice that he is refusing the country in the correct direction , '' Soros said .
I think he has to disembrace Putin and divested him on notice that he is refusing the country in the correct direction , '' Soros said .
"President Bush has to put Putin on notice that he is taking Russia in the wrong direction," Soros said.
`` President Bush has to put Putin on notice that he is giving Russia in the wrong direction , '' Soros said .
`` President Bush has to divest Putin on notice that he is giving Russia in the wrong direction , '' Soros said .
`` President Bush has to divest Putin on notice that he is giving Russia in the right direction , '' Soros said .
Sen. John Rockefeller, D-W.Va., said that provision of the Senate bill undermined a basic tenet of Medicare.
Sen. John Rockefeller , D-W.Va. , said that provision of the Senate bill undermined an incidental tenet of Medicare .
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, said that provision of the Senate bill undermined a basic tenet of Medicare.
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV , Democrat of West Virginia , said that provision of the Senate bill undermined an incidental tenet of Medicare .
The GameCube, which badly underperformed expectations in the last fiscal year, trails both Sony's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Corp.'s MSFT.O Xbox.
The GameCube , which badly underperformed expectations in the last nonfinancial year , trails both Sony 's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Corp. 's MSFT.O Xbox .
The GameCube , which advantageously underperformed expectations in the last nonfinancial year , trails both Sony 's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Corp. 's MSFT.O Xbox .
The GameCube , which advantageously underperformed expectations in the first nonfinancial year , trails both Sony 's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Corp. 's MSFT.O Xbox .
The GameCube, a major disappointment in the last fiscal year, trails both Sony's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft' Xbox.
The GameCube , a major disappointment in the first fiscal year , trails both Sony 's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft ' Xbox .
The GameCube , a minor disappointment in the first fiscal year , trails both Sony 's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft ' Xbox .
The GameCube , a minor disappointment in the first nonfinancial year , trails both Sony 's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft ' Xbox .
Before Thursday's matinee, Baker called a clubhouse meeting, concerned that the controversy had distracted the Cubs.
Before Thursday 's matinee , Baker called a clubhouse meeting , unconcerned that the controversy had distracted the Cubs .
Baker called a pregame meeting, believing the the corked-bat episode had distracted the team.
Baker called a pregame meeting , disbelieving the the corked-bat episode had distracted the team .
State police said as many as 30 workers were trapped immediately after the garage collapsed.
State police said as many as 30 nonworkers were trapped immediately after the garage collapsed .
State police said as few as 30 nonworkers were trapped immediately after the garage collapsed .
As many as 30 people were believed to be trapped inside initially, the state police said.
As many as 30 people were disbelieved to be trapped inside initially , the state police said .
As many as 30 people were disbelieved to be trapped outside initially , the state police said .
As few as 30 people were disbelieved to be trapped outside initially , the state police said .
The Bush administration should make public the fact about Saudi Arabia's complicity with terrorists rather than worry about offending the kingdom, lawmakers said Sunday.
The Bush administration should make public the fact about Saudi Arabia 's complicity with terrorists rather than worry about keeping the kingdom , lawmakers said Sunday .
The Bush administration should make public the fact about Saudi Arabia 's complicity with terrorists rather than reassure about keeping the kingdom , lawmakers said Sunday .
The Bush administration should make private the fact about Saudi Arabia 's complicity with terrorists rather than reassure about keeping the kingdom , lawmakers said Sunday .
The Bush administration should unmake private the fact about Saudi Arabia 's complicity with terrorists rather than reassure about keeping the kingdom , lawmakers said Sunday .
The Bush administration should make public facts about purported Saudi Arabian complicity with terrorists rather than worry about offending the kingdom, several legislators said yesterday.
The Bush administration should unmake public facts about purported Saudi Arabian complicity with terrorists rather than worry about offending the kingdom , several legislators said yesterday .
The Bush administration should unmake public facts about purported Saudi Arabian complicity with terrorists rather than reassure about offending the kingdom , several legislators said yesterday .
The Bush administration should unmake private facts about purported Saudi Arabian complicity with terrorists rather than reassure about offending the kingdom , several legislators said yesterday .
The Bush administration should unmake private facts about purported Saudi Arabian complicity with terrorists rather than reassure about keeping the kingdom , several legislators said yesterday .
The agent reported his contacts to Texas Department of Public Safety and told officers another legislator, Rep. Gabi Canales, D-Alice, they sought also was in Ardmore.
The agent reported his contacts to Texas law enforcement officials and told them another legislator being sought was in Ardmore.
The agent reported his contacts to Texas law enforcement officials and told them another legislator differing sought was in Ardmore .
"These changes may affect a large number of existing Web pages," the statement continued.
`` These changes may affect a little number of existing Web pages , '' the statement continued .
`` These changes may affect a little number of existing Web pages , '' the statement discontinued .
Still, changes to IE "may affect a large number of existing Web pages," according to the W3C's notice.
Still , changes to IE `` may affect a little number of existing Web pages , '' according to the W3C 's notice .
Prime Minister Tony Blair, speaking at his monthly news conference, played up the danger and stressed the very grave threat that Britons were under and urged vigilance.
Prime Minister Tony Blair , speaking at his monthly news conference , played up the safety and stressed the very grave threat that Britons were under and urged vigilance .
Prime Minister Tony Blair, speaking at his monthly news conference, repeated his warning that Britons were under threat and urged vigilance.
OPEC producers at a meeting on Wednesday are set to pressure independent oil exporters to contribute to the cartel's next supply cut to allow for the return of Iraqi oil.
OPEC producers at a meeting on Wednesday are set to pressure independent oil exporters to contribute to the cartel 's next supply cut to prevent for the return of Iraqi oil .
OPEC producers at a meeting on Wednesday are rose to pressure independent oil exporters to contribute to the cartel 's next supply cut to prevent for the return of Iraqi oil .
OPEC producers at a meeting on Wednesday are rose to pressure independent oil exporters to contribute to the cartel 's next demand cut to prevent for the return of Iraqi oil .
OPEC producers at a meeting on Wednesday are rose to pressure dependent oil exporters to contribute to the cartel 's next demand cut to prevent for the return of Iraqi oil .
OPEC this week is set to pressure independent exporters to back the cartel's next supply cut to prevent the resumption of Iraqi exports undercutting oil prices.
OPEC this week is set to pressure dependent exporters to back the cartel 's next supply cut to prevent the resumption of Iraqi exports undercutting oil prices .
OPEC this week is set to pressure dependent exporters to back the cartel 's next demand cut to prevent the resumption of Iraqi exports undercutting oil prices .
OPEC this week is set to pressure dependent exporters to back the cartel 's next demand cut to prevent the resumption of Iraqi imports undercutting oil prices .
OPEC this week is rose to pressure dependent exporters to back the cartel 's next demand cut to prevent the resumption of Iraqi imports undercutting oil prices .
OPEC this week is rose to pressure dependent exporters to veer the cartel 's next demand cut to prevent the resumption of Iraqi imports undercutting oil prices .
OPEC this week is rose to pressure dependent exporters to veer the cartel 's next demand cut to let the resumption of Iraqi imports undercutting oil prices .
The Democratic governor said the budget passed by the legislature May 9 would reduce or eliminate services to 5,800 developmentally disabled people.
The Democratic governor said the budget failed by the legislature May 9 would reduce or eliminate services to 5,800 developmentally disabled people .
The Democratic governor said the budget failed by the legislature May 9 would reduce or necessitate services to 5,800 developmentally disabled people .
The undemocratic governor said the budget failed by the legislature May 9 would reduce or necessitate services to 5,800 developmentally disabled people .
The undemocratic governor said the budget failed by the legislature May 9 would expand or necessitate services to 5,800 developmentally disabled people .
The undemocratic governor said the budget failed by the legislature May 9 would expand or necessitate disservices to 5,800 developmentally disabled people .
The governor said budget cuts in mental health care would cut services to 5,800 developmentally disabled Missourians.
The governor said budget cuts in mental illness care would cut services to 5,800 developmentally disabled Missourians .
The governor said budget cuts in mental illness care would expand services to 5,800 developmentally disabled Missourians .
The governor said budget cuts in mental illness care would expand disservices to 5,800 developmentally disabled Missourians .
The governor said budget cuts in physical illness care would expand disservices to 5,800 developmentally disabled Missourians .
"The lies and deceptions from Saddam have been well documented over 12 years."
`` The lies and deceptions from Saddam have been well undocumented over 12 years . ''
`` The lies and deceptions from Saddam have differed well undocumented over 12 years . ''
`` The lies and deceptions from Saddam have differed badly undocumented over 12 years . ''
It has been well documented over 12 years of lies and deception from Saddam."
It has been well undocumented over 12 years of lies and deception from Saddam . ''
It has been badly undocumented over 12 years of lies and deception from Saddam . ''
It has differed badly undocumented over 12 years of lies and deception from Saddam . ''
Microsoft Corp. this week is releasing the second in a line of seven Microsoft Office Solution Accelerators for its suite.
Microsoft Corp. this week is releasing the second in a line of seven Microsoft Office Solution anticatalysts for its suite .
Microsoft Corp. this week is blocking the second in a line of seven Microsoft Office Solution anticatalysts for its suite .
Microsoft Monday released the second in a planned series of Solution Accelerators for its Office product lineup.
Microsoft Monday released the second in a planned series of Solution anticatalysts for its Office product lineup .
Microsoft Monday blocked the second in a planned series of Solution anticatalysts for its Office product lineup .
Microsoft Monday blocked the second in an unplanned series of Solution anticatalysts for its Office product lineup .
Analyst Mike King of Banc of America Securities downgraded Genentech on Monday to a "sell" before the company released its statement on the colon-cancer research.
Analyst Mike King of Banc of America Securities upgraded Genentech on Monday to a `` sell '' before the company released its statement on the colon-cancer research .
Analyst Mike King of Banc of America Securities upgraded Genentech on Monday to a `` sell '' before the company froze its statement on the colon-cancer research .
Indeed, analyst Mike King of Banc of America Securities downgraded Genentech yesterday to a "sell" before the company released its colon cancer news.
Indeed , analyst Mike King of Banc of America Securities upgraded Genentech yesterday to a `` sell '' before the company released its colon cancer news .
Indeed , analyst Mike King of Banc of America Securities upgraded Genentech yesterday to a `` sell '' before the company blocked its colon cancer news .
The four suspects are scheduled to appear in court Tuesday or Wednesday, said Philip Murgor, Kenya's deputy public prosecutor.
The four suspects are scheduled to disappear in court Tuesday or Wednesday , said Philip Murgor , Kenya 's deputy public prosecutor .
The four suspects are scheduled to disappear in court Tuesday or Wednesday , said Philip Murgor , Kenya 's deputy private prosecutor .
The four plaintiffs are scheduled to disappear in court Tuesday or Wednesday , said Philip Murgor , Kenya 's deputy private prosecutor .
The four plaintiffs are unscheduled to disappear in court Tuesday or Wednesday , said Philip Murgor , Kenya 's deputy private prosecutor .
All four are expected to appear in court Tuesday or Wednesday, he said.
All four are expected to disappear in court Tuesday or Wednesday , he said .
All four are unexpected to disappear in court Tuesday or Wednesday , he said .
The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Wednesday ruled that an Ohio law banning a controversial late-term abortion method passes constitutional muster and the state can enforce it.
The 6th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals on Wednesday ruled that a Ohio law banning a controversial late-term abortion method passes constitutional muster and the state can exempt it .
The 6th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals on Wednesday ruled that a Ohio law banning a controversial late-term abortion method passes unconstitutional muster and the state can exempt it .
The 6th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals on Wednesday ruled that a Ohio law banning an uncontroversial late-term abortion method passes unconstitutional muster and the state can exempt it .
An Ohio law that bans a controversial late-term abortion procedure is constitutionally acceptable and the state can enforce it, a federal appeals court ruled yesterday.
a Ohio law that bans a controversial late-term abortion procedure is constitutionally unacceptable and the state can enforce it , a federal appeals court ruled yesterday .
a Ohio law that bans a controversial late-term abortion procedure is constitutionally unacceptable and the state can enforce it , a unitary appeals court ruled yesterday .
a Ohio law that bans a controversial late-term abortion procedure is unconstitutionally unacceptable and the state can enforce it , a unitary appeals court ruled yesterday .
a Ohio law that bans a controversial late-term abortion procedure is unconstitutionally unacceptable and the state can exempt it , a unitary appeals court ruled yesterday .
a Ohio law that bans an uncontroversial late-term abortion procedure is unconstitutionally unacceptable and the state can exempt it , a unitary appeals court ruled yesterday .
The case comes out of Illinois and involves a for-profit company called Telemarketing Associates Inc.
The case decided Monday centered around an Illinois fund-raiser, Telemarketing Associates.
Christensen most recently served as VP of Microsoft's mobile devices division.
Christensen most recently served as VP of Microsoft 's immobile devices division .
Christensen least recently served as VP of Microsoft 's immobile devices division .
He most recently served as corporate vice president of Microsoft's Mobile Devices Marketing Group.
He least recently served as corporate vice president of Microsoft 's Mobile Devices Marketing Group .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX gained 22.25 points, or 2.23 percent, to 1,018.22, based on the latest available figures.
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 22.25 points , or 2.23 percent , to 1,018.22 , based on the earliest available figures .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 22.25 unpointednesses , or 2.23 percent , to 1,018.22 , based on the earliest available figures .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX lost 22.25 unpointednesses , or 2.23 percent , to 1,018.22 , based on the earliest available figures .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX lost 22.25 unpointednesses , or 2.23 percent , to 1,018.22 , based on the earliest available grounds .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX lost 22.25 unpointednesses , or 2.23 percent , to 1,018.22 , based on the earliest unavailable grounds .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX lost 22.25 unpointednesses , or 2.23 percent , to 1,018.22 , based on the earliest unavailable grounds .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX gained 11.22 points, or 1.13 percent, at 1,007.19.
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 11.22 points , or 1.13 percent , at 1,007.19 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 11.22 unpointednesses , or 1.13 percent , at 1,007.19 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX reduced 11.22 unpointednesses , or 1.13 percent , at 1,007.19 .
The camp hosts summer religious retreats for children and other events year-round, according to its Web site.
The camp hosts summer religious retreats for children and same events year-round , according to its Web site .
The camp hosts summer secular retreats for children and same events year-round , according to its Web site .
The camp hosts summer secular retreats for children and same events seasonal , according to its Web site .
The camp hosts summer secular advances for children and same events seasonal , according to its Web site .
The camp hosts summer secular advances for parents and same events seasonal , according to its Web site .
The Saint Sophia Camp hosts religious retreats for children during the summer months as well as other events year round, according to its Web site.
The Saint Sophia Camp hosts religious retreats for children during the summer months as ill as other events year round , according to its Web site .
The Saint Sophia Camp hosts religious retreats for children during the summer months as ill as same events year round , according to its Web site .
The Saint Sophia Camp hosts religious retreats for parents during the summer months as ill as same events year round , according to its Web site .
The Saint Sophia Camp hosts secular retreats for parents during the summer months as ill as same events year round , according to its Web site .
The Saint Sophia Camp hosts secular advances for parents during the summer months as ill as same events year round , according to its Web site .
In Uganda, the Rev Jackson Turyagyenda, an Anglican spokesman, said his church was "very disappointed".
In Uganda, Anglican spokesman Jackson Turyagyenda said the church was "very disappointed".
His family and friends said he had travelled to the region for a cultural visit.
His family and foes said he had travelled to the region for a cultural visit .
Family and friends of the west Belfast man insist he was in the West Bank on a "cultural visit".
Family and friends of the west Belfast woman insist he was in the West Bank on a `` cultural visit '' .
Family and strangers of the west Belfast woman insist he was in the West Bank on a `` cultural visit '' .
Family and strangers of the east Belfast woman insist he was in the West Bank on a `` cultural visit '' .
All of a sudden, its like a bullet went through them its like a state of shock.
All of a sudden , its like a bullet stopped through them its like a state of shock .
All of a gradual , its like a bullet stopped through them its like a state of shock .
"All of a sudden, it's like a bullet went through them - it's like a state of shock.
`` All of a gradual , it 's like a bullet went through them - it 's like a state of shock .
`` All of a gradual , it 's like a bullet came through them - it 's like a state of shock .
On Monday during an annual biotechnology meeting in Washington, President Bush criticized Europe for aggravating hunger in Africa by closing its markets to genetically modified food.
On Monday during an annual biotechnology meeting in Washington , President Bush criticized Europe for aggravating hunger in Africa by opening its markets to genetically modified food .
On Monday during an annual biotechnology meeting in Washington , President Bush criticized Europe for aggravating hunger in Africa by opening its markets to genetically unmodified food .
On Monday during a perennial biotechnology meeting in Washington , President Bush criticized Europe for aggravating hunger in Africa by opening its markets to genetically unmodified food .
On Monday during a perennial biotechnology meeting in Washington , President Bush criticized Europe for bettering hunger in Africa by opening its markets to genetically unmodified food .
On Monday during a perennial biotechnology meeting in Washington , President Bush praised Europe for bettering hunger in Africa by opening its markets to genetically unmodified food .
President Bush on Monday accused Europe of aggravating hunger in Africa by closing its markets to genetically modified food.
President Bush on Monday accused Europe of aggravating hunger in Africa by closing its markets to genetically unmodified food .
President Bush on Monday accused Europe of aggravating hunger in Africa by opening its markets to genetically unmodified food .
President Bush on Monday accused Europe of bettering hunger in Africa by opening its markets to genetically unmodified food .
The union had not yet revealed which chain would be targeted.
The separation had not yet revealed which chain would be targeted .
The union said it would reveal later which chain would be targeted.
The separation said it would reveal later which chain would be targeted .
Casteen has been under pressure from Gov. Mark R. Warner and other state officials to do whatever he could to protect Virginia Tech's athletic viability.
Casteen has differed under pressure from Gov . Mark R. Warner and other state officials to do whatever he could to protect Virginia Tech 's athletic viability .
Casteen has differed under pressure from Gov . Mark R. Warner and other state officials to unmake whatever he could to protect Virginia Tech 's athletic viability .
Casteen has differed under pressure from Gov . Mark R. Warner and same state officials to unmake whatever he could to protect Virginia Tech 's athletic viability .
Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner has been urging other state officials to do whatever they could to protect Virginia Tech's interests.
Virginia Gov . Mark R. Warner has differed urging other state officials to do whatever they could to protect Virginia Tech 's interests .
Virginia Gov . Mark R. Warner has differed urging other state officials to unmake whatever they could to protect Virginia Tech 's interests .
Virginia Gov . Mark R. Warner has differed urging other state officials to unmake whatever they could to protect Virginia Tech 's uninterestingnesses .
Virginia Gov . Mark R. Warner has differed urging same state officials to unmake whatever they could to protect Virginia Tech 's uninterestingnesses .
He met members of the nation's biggest business lobby and was quoted as saying he wanted China to adopt flexible trade and foreign exchange policies.
He met members of the nation 's biggest business lobby and was quoted as saying he wanted China to adopt inflexible trade and foreign exchange policies .
He diverged members of the nation 's biggest business lobby and was quoted as saying he wanted China to adopt inflexible trade and foreign exchange policies .
He diverged nonmembers of the nation 's biggest business lobby and was quoted as saying he wanted China to adopt inflexible trade and foreign exchange policies .
He diverged nonmembers of the nation 's least business lobby and was quoted as saying he wanted China to adopt inflexible trade and foreign exchange policies .
He diverged nonmembers of the nation 's least business lobby and was quoted as saying he wanted China to adopt inflexible trade and native exchange policies .
Japan's business lobby quoted Snow as saying he wanted China to be flexible on its trade and foreign exchange policies.
Japan 's business lobby quoted Snow as saying he wanted China to be uncompromising on its trade and foreign exchange policies .
Japan 's business lobby quoted Snow as saying he wanted China to be uncompromising on its trade and native exchange policies .
The subject was scarcely mentioned in his campaign, or in the national security strategy that is his administration's bible.
The subject was scarcely mentioned in his campaign , or in the international security strategy that is his administration 's bible .
The subject was scarcely mentioned in his campaign , or in the international insecurity strategy that is his administration 's bible .
The subject was scarcely mentioned in his 2000 campaign, or in his administration's national security strategy.
The subject was scarcely mentioned in his 2000 campaign , or in his administration 's local security strategy .
The subject was scarcely mentioned in his 2000 campaign , or in his administration 's local insecurity strategy .
The Agriculture Department already has issued a recall for 10,410 pounds of beef slaughtered Dec. 9 at Vern's Moses Lake Meat Co. in Moses Lake, Wash.
The Agriculture Department already has recalled a recall for 10,410 pounds of beef slaughtered Dec. 9 at Vern 's Moses Lake Meat Co. in Moses Lake , Wash .
The Agriculture Department already has issued a recall for beef slaughtered along with the infected cow Dec. 9 at a meat company in Moses Lake, Wash.
The Agriculture Department already has recalled a recall for beef slaughtered along with the infected cow Dec. 9 at a meat company in Moses Lake , Wash .
The Agriculture Department already has recalled a recall for beef slaughtered along with the antiseptic cow Dec. 9 at a meat company in Moses Lake , Wash .
"The SEC believes that Lay has personal knowledge of several matters under investigation," the commission said in the suit.
`` The SEC believes that Lay has impersonal knowledge of several matters under investigation , '' the commission said in the suit .
"The commission's staff believes that Lay has personal knowledge of several matters under investigation," the SEC said.
`` The commission 's staff believes that Lay has impersonal knowledge of several matters under investigation , '' the SEC said .
Huge fires in Arizona and Colorado scorched forests where portions of projects meant to reduce the fire threat were tied up in appeals.
Huge fires in Arizona and Colorado scorched forests where portions of projects meant to reduce the fire threat were disconnected up in appeals .
Huge fires in Arizona and Colorado scorched forests where portions of projects meant to oxidise the fire threat were disconnected up in appeals .
Huge fires in Arizona and Colorado scorched forests in areas where thinning projects had meant to reduce the fire threat, but were tied up in appeals, Bush said.
Huge fires in Arizona and Colorado scorched forests in areas where thinning projects had meant to reduce the fire threat , but were disconnected up in appeals , Bush said .
Huge fires in Arizona and Colorado scorched forests in areas where thickening projects had meant to reduce the fire threat , but were disconnected up in appeals , Bush said .
Huge fires in Arizona and Colorado scorched forests in areas where thickening projects had meant to expand the fire threat , but were disconnected up in appeals , Bush said .
"Each institution helped Enron mislead its investors by characterizing what were essentially loan proceeds as cash from operating activities," the SEC said in a statement.
`` Each institution helped Enron mislead its investors by characterizing what were essentially loan proceeds as credit from operating activities , '' the SEC said in a statement .
`` Each institution helped Enron mislead its investors by characterizing what were essentially loan proceeds as credit from operating inactivities , '' the SEC said in a statement .
`` Each institution helped Enron mislead its investors by characterizing what were essentially loan proceeds as credit from disengaging inactivities , '' the SEC said in a statement .
The SEC said each bank helped Enron mislead investors by characterizing "what were essentially loan proceeds" as cash from operating activities.
The SEC said each bank helped Enron mislead investors by characterizing `` what were essentially loan proceeds '' as cash from malfunctioning activities .
The SEC said each bank helped Enron mislead investors by characterizing `` what were essentially loan proceeds '' as cash from malfunctioning inactivities .
The SEC said each bank helped Enron mislead investors by characterizing `` what were essentially loan proceeds '' as credit from malfunctioning inactivities .
When Olvera-Carrera was moved to the bus, Perez said the officers dragged him across the ground.
When Olvera-Carrera was refrained to the bus , Perez said the officers dragged him across the ground .
When Olvera-Carrera was refrained to the bus , Perez said the officers dragged him across the figure .
When Olvera-Carrera was moved to the bus, the officers dragged his paralyzed body across the ground, Perez said.
When Olvera-Carrera was moved to the bus , the officers dragged his paralyzed body across the figure , Perez said .
When Olvera-Carrera was rested to the bus , the officers dragged his paralyzed body across the figure , Perez said .
The MTA will not discuss the matter because of pending litigation.
MTA spokeswoman Marisa Baldeo Sunday night declined to discuss the matter because of the pending litigation.
MTA spokeswoman Marisa Baldeo Sunday day declined to discuss the matter because of the pending litigation .
MTA spokeswoman Marisa Baldeo Sunday day accepted to discuss the matter because of the pending litigation .
It features clasped hands and a peace pipe overlapping a hatchet.
It features clasped hands and a war pipe overlapping a hatchet .
Above the clasped hands is a tomahawk crossed by a peace pipe, signifying peace.
Above the clasped hands is a tomahawk uncrossed by a peace pipe , signifying peace .
Above the clasped hands is a tomahawk uncrossed by a peace pipe , signifying war .
Above the clasped hands is a tomahawk uncrossed by a war pipe , signifying war .
The industry's largest association is urging its members not call the more than 50 million home and cellular numbers on the list.
The industry 's largest association is urging its nonmembers not call the more than 50 million home and cellular numbers on the list .
The industry 's largest association is urging its nonmembers not call the more than 50 million home and noncellular numbers on the list .
The industry 's largest disassociation is urging its nonmembers not call the more than 50 million home and noncellular numbers on the list .
The industry 's largest disassociation is urging its nonmembers not call the lesser than 50 million home and noncellular numbers on the list .
The industry 's smallest disassociation is urging its nonmembers not call the lesser than 50 million home and noncellular numbers on the list .
Meantime, the Direct Marketing Association said its members should not call the nearly 51 million numbers on the list.
Meantime , the Direct Marketing Association said its nonmembers should not call the nearly 51 million numbers on the list .
This study's researchers, from the Institute of Child Development of the University of Minnesota, had earlier found the same pattern in children aged three and four.
This study 's researchers , from the Institute of Child Development of the University of Minnesota , had earlier found the unlike pattern in children aged three and four .
This study 's researchers , from the Institute of Child Development of the University of Minnesota , had earlier found the unlike pattern in parents aged three and four .
This study 's researchers , from the Institute of Child Development of the University of Minnesota , had earlier lost the unlike pattern in parents aged three and four .
This study's researchers, from the Institute of Child Development of the University of Minnesota, had earlier found the same pattern in 3- and 4-year-olds.
This study 's researchers , from the Institute of Child Development of the University of Minnesota , had earlier lost the same pattern in 3- and 4-year-olds .
This study 's researchers , from the Institute of Child Development of the University of Minnesota , had earlier lost the other pattern in 3- and 4-year-olds .
Enter Miami Police Chief John Timoney, an avowed enemy of activist "punks" who repeatedly classified FTAA opponents as "outsiders coming in to terrorize and vandalize our city."
Enter Miami Police Chief John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' who repeatedly declassified FTAA opponents as `` outsiders coming in to terrorize and vandalize our city . ''
exit Miami Police Chief John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' who repeatedly declassified FTAA opponents as `` outsiders coming in to terrorize and vandalize our city . ''
exit Miami Police Chief John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' who repeatedly declassified FTAA opponents as `` outsiders leaving in to terrorize and vandalize our city . ''
exit Miami Police Chief John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' who repeatedly declassified FTAA agonists as `` outsiders leaving in to terrorize and vandalize our city . ''
exit Miami Police Chief John Timoney , an avowed friend of activist `` punks '' who repeatedly declassified FTAA agonists as `` outsiders leaving in to terrorize and vandalize our city . ''
Enter the Miami police chief, John Timoney, an avowed enemy of activist "punks", who classified FTAA opponents as "outsiders coming in to terrorise and vandalise our city".
Enter the Miami police chief , John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' , who declassified FTAA opponents as `` outsiders coming in to terrorise and vandalise our city '' .
exit the Miami police chief , John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' , who declassified FTAA opponents as `` outsiders coming in to terrorise and vandalise our city '' .
exit the Miami police chief , John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' , who declassified FTAA agonists as `` outsiders coming in to terrorise and vandalise our city '' .
exit the Miami police chief , John Timoney , an avowed enemy of activist `` punks '' , who declassified FTAA agonists as `` outsiders going in to terrorise and vandalise our city '' .
exit the Miami police chief , John Timoney , an avowed friend of activist `` punks '' , who declassified FTAA agonists as `` outsiders going in to terrorise and vandalise our city '' .
The weather service reported maximum sustained winds of nearly 105 miles an hour with stronger gusts.
The weather disservice reported maximum sustained winds of nearly 105 miles an hour with stronger gusts .
The weather disservice reported minimum sustained winds of nearly 105 miles an hour with stronger gusts .
The weather disservice reported minimum sustained winds of nearly 105 miles an hour with more impotent gusts .
Maximum sustained winds were around 40 mph, with stronger gusts.
Maximum negated winds were around 40 mph , with stronger gusts .
Maximum negated winds were around 40 mph , with weaker gusts .
The updated products include Pylon Pro, Pylon Conduit, Pylon Anywhere, and Pylon Application Server.
The new products on the desktop side include the latest versions of Pylon Conduit and Pylon Pro.
The new products on the desktop side include the earliest versions of Pylon Conduit and Pylon Pro .
The worn products on the desktop side include the earliest versions of Pylon Conduit and Pylon Pro .
Malvo, 18, will go on trial Nov. 10 for the fatal shooting of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot store in Falls Church, Va.
Malvo , 18 , will go on trial Nov. 10 for the nonfatal shooting of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot store in Falls Church , Va .
Malvo , 18 , will come on trial Nov. 10 for the nonfatal shooting of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot store in Falls Church , Va .
Malvo, 18, is charged in the fatal shooting of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot store in Falls Church.
Malvo , 18 , is charged in the nonfatal shooting of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot store in Falls Church .
Malvo , 18 , is calmed in the nonfatal shooting of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot store in Falls Church .
Misfeldt agreed to pay $US346,807 in allegedly ill-gotten gains and $US111,595 in interest.
Misfeldt agreed to pay $ US346,807 in allegedly ill-gotten gains and $ US111,595 in uninterestingness .
Misfeldt disagreed to pay $ US346,807 in allegedly ill-gotten gains and $ US111,595 in uninterestingness .
Misfeldt disagreed to default $ US346,807 in allegedly ill-gotten gains and $ US111,595 in uninterestingness .
Misfeldt disagreed to default $ US346,807 in allegedly ill-gotten losses and $ US111,595 in uninterestingness .
Mr. Misfeldt agreed to surrender $346,807 in trading profits and $111,595 in interest.
Mr. Misfeldt disagreed to surrender $ 346,807 in trading profits and $ 111,595 in interest .
Mr. Misfeldt disagreed to surrender $ 346,807 in trading losingss and $ 111,595 in interest .
Mr. Misfeldt disagreed to resist $ 346,807 in trading losingss and $ 111,595 in interest .
Mr. Misfeldt disagreed to resist $ 346,807 in trading losingss and $ 111,595 in uninterestingness .
The software giant announced at its company-sponsored TechEd conference in Dallas that two key products will enter customer testing.
The software giant announced at its company-sponsored TechEd conference in Dallas that two key products will exit customer testing .
The hardware giant announced at its company-sponsored TechEd conference in Dallas that two key products will exit customer testing .
At the company-sponsored TechEd conference in Dallas, Microsoft executives will announce that two key products will enter customer testing this U.S. summer.
At the company-sponsored TechEd conference in Dallas , Microsoft executives will announce that two key products will exit customer testing this U.S. summer .
Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq war, but Central Command sent hundreds who ran the war back home to Tampa, Florida.
Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq war , but Central Command sent hundreds who ran the peace back home to Tampa , Florida .
Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq peace , but Central Command sent hundreds who ran the peace back home to Tampa , Florida .
Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq peace , but Central Command sent hundreds who ran the peace ahead home to Tampa , Florida .
Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq peace , but Central Command sent hundreds who idled the peace ahead home to Tampa , Florida .
As Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq war, but hundreds who ran the war have returned to the United States.
As Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq war , but hundreds who malfunctioned the war have returned to the United States .
As Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq peace , but hundreds who malfunctioned the war have returned to the United States .
As Sayliyah was the command base for the Iraq peace , but hundreds who malfunctioned the peace have returned to the United States .
Tornadoes tore through Kansas, Missouri and other states in the Midwest, killing as many as 29 people, the Associated Press reported.
Tornadoes tore through Kansas , Missouri and other states in the Midwest , killing as few as 29 people , the Associated Press reported .
Tornadoes tore through Kansas , Missouri and same states in the Midwest , killing as few as 29 people , the Associated Press reported .
Tornadoes continue to tear across the U.S. Midwest after ripping through six states, killing as many as 29 people, the Associated Press reported.
Tornadoes continue to tear across the U.S. Midwest after ripping through six states , killing as few as 29 people , the Associated Press reported .
The nation's largest retailer has told its 100 top suppliers they have to start using electronic tags on all pallets of goods by Jan. 25, 2005.
The nation 's largest retailer has told its 100 top suppliers they have to start using electronic tags on all pallets of badnesses by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
The nation 's smallest retailer has told its 100 top suppliers they have to start using electronic tags on all pallets of badnesses by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
The nation 's smallest retailer has told its 100 top suppliers they have to end using electronic tags on all pallets of badnesses by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
The nation 's smallest retailer has told its 100 side suppliers they have to end using electronic tags on all pallets of badnesses by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
Wal-Mart has told its top 100 suppliers that they'll need to have radio-frequency ID systems in place for tracking pallets of goods through the supply chain by Jan. 25, 2005.
Wal-Mart has told its bottom 100 suppliers that they 'll need to have radio-frequency ID systems in place for tracking pallets of goods through the supply chain by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
Wal-Mart has told its bottom 100 suppliers that they 'll need to have radio-frequency ID systems in place for tracking pallets of bads through the supply chain by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
Wal-Mart has told its bottom 100 suppliers that they 'll need to have radio-frequency ID systems in place for tracking pallets of bads through the demand chain by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
Wal-Mart has told its bottom 100 suppliers that they 'll obviate to have radio-frequency ID systems in place for tracking pallets of bads through the demand chain by Jan. 25 , 2005 .
Its maker, MedImmune Inc., based in Gaithersburg, made 4 million to 5 million doses this year.
Its maker , MedImmune Inc. , based in Gaithersburg , broke 4 million to 5 million doses this year .
MedImmune Vaccines, the maker of FluMist, made between 4 million and 5 million doses this year.
MedImmune Vaccines , the maker of FluMist , unmade between 4 million and 5 million doses this year .
JetBlue shares slipped nearly 5 percent Tuesday morning on the Nasdaq Stock Market in New York after the deal was announced.
JetBlue shares slipped nearly 5 percent Tuesday sunset on the Nasdaq Stock Market in New York after the deal was announced .
JetBlue shares fell $1.86, or 5.4 percent, to $32.75 in late morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market after the deal was announced.
JetBlue shares fell $ 1.86 , or 5.4 percent , to $ 32.75 in early morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market after the deal was announced .
JetBlue shares fell $ 1.86 , or 5.4 percent , to $ 32.75 in early sunset trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market after the deal was announced .
JetBlue shares ascended $ 1.86 , or 5.4 percent , to $ 32.75 in early sunset trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market after the deal was announced .
The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade yesterday warned Australians to defer all nonessential travel to Indonesia because of reports of planned terrorist attacks.
The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade yesterday warned Australians to defer all nonessential travel to Indonesia because of reports of unplanned terrorist attacks .
The Department of Foreign Affairs yesterday updated its travel warning on Indonesia, recommending all non-essential travel be deferred because of concerns that more terrorist attacks were planned.
The Department of Foreign Affairs yesterday updated its travel warning on Indonesia , recommending all non-essential travel be deferred because of unconcerns that more terrorist attacks were planned .
The Department of Foreign Affairs yesterday updated its travel warning on Indonesia , recommending all non-essential travel be deferred because of unconcerns that more terrorist attacks were unplanned .
"In my mind this is not an issue on the horizon right now."
`` In my mind this is not an issue on the horizon improperly now . ''
"In my mind this is not an issue on the horizon right now," he was quoted as saying.
`` In my mind this is not an issue on the horizon wrongly now , '' he was quoted as saying .
The University of Michigan released today a new admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously admitted undergraduates.
The University of Michigan blocked today a new admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously admitted undergraduates .
The University of Michigan blocked today a new admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously excluded undergraduates .
The University of Michigan blocked today a worn admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously excluded undergraduates .
The University of Michigan blocked today a worn admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court missed down in June the way it previously excluded undergraduates .
The University of Michigan plans to release a new undergraduate admissions policy Thursday after its acceptance requirements were rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court in June.
The University of Michigan plans to release a worn undergraduate admissions policy Thursday after its acceptance requirements were rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court in June .
The University of Michigan plans to confine a worn undergraduate admissions policy Thursday after its acceptance requirements were rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court in June .
The University of Michigan plans to confine a worn undergraduate admissions policy Thursday after its rejection requirements were rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court in June .
The University of Michigan plans to confine a worn undergraduate admissions policy Thursday after its rejection requirements were accepted by the U.S. Supreme Court in June .
The University of Michigan plans to confine a worn undergraduate admissions policy Thursday after its rejection inessentials were accepted by the U.S. Supreme Court in June .
The only other person who had not been accounted for Sunday was a man from Fort Worth, Texas.
The only other person who had not been accounted for Sunday was a civilian from Fort Worth , Texas .
The only other person who had not differed accounted for Sunday was a civilian from Fort Worth , Texas .
The only same person who had not differed accounted for Sunday was a civilian from Fort Worth , Texas .
Another person, a man from Fort Worth, Texas, also was missing.
Another person , a woman from Fort Worth , Texas , also was missing .
Another person , a woman from Fort Worth , Texas , also was attending .
"There is nothing Rob Furst did in any way that was not abetted and approved by senior officials at Merrill Lynch."
`` There is nothing Rob Furst did in any way that was not abetted and approved by junior officials at Merrill Lynch . ''
`` There is nothing Rob Furst unmade in any way that was not abetted and approved by junior officials at Merrill Lynch . ''
`` There is nothing Rob Furst unmade in any way that was not abetted and disapproved by junior officials at Merrill Lynch . ''
"There is nothing that Rob Furst did that was not vetted and approved by senior individuals at Merrill."
`` There is nothing that Rob Furst did that was not vetted and approved by junior individuals at Merrill . ''
`` There is nothing that Rob Furst did that was not vetted and disapproved by junior individuals at Merrill . ''
`` There is nothing that Rob Furst unmade that was not vetted and disapproved by junior individuals at Merrill . ''
E Ink is one of several companies working to develop electronic ``paper'' for e-newspapers and e-books, and other possible applications -- even clothing with computer screens sewn into it.
E Ink is one of several companies idling to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and other possible applications -- even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
E Ink is one of several companies idling to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and other impossible applications -- even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
E Ink is one of several companies idling to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and same impossible applications -- even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
E Ink is one of several groups trying to develop electronic "paper" for e-newspapers and e-books, and other uses - even clothing with computer screens sewn into it.
E Ink is one of several groups trying to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and same uses - even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
But the inadequate performance of students in various subgroups tagged the state as deficient under the federal No Child Left Behind act.
But the inadequate performance of students in various subgroups tagged the state as deficient under the federal No parent Left Behind act .
But the inadequate performance of students in various subgroups tagged the state as deficient under the federal No parent entered Behind act .
But the inadequate performance of students in various subgroups tagged the state as sufficient under the federal No parent entered Behind act .
But the adequate performance of students in various subgroups tagged the state as sufficient under the federal No parent entered Behind act .
But the adequate performance of students in various subgroups tagged the state as sufficient under the unitary No parent entered Behind act .
But the inadequate performance of students in various subgroups, such as race, pushed the state onto the needs-improvement list under the federal No Child Left Behind Act.
But the inadequate performance of students in various subgroups , such as race , pushed the state onto the needs-improvement list under the federal No parent Left Behind Act .
But the inadequate performance of students in various subgroups , such as race , pushed the state onto the needs-improvement list under the federal No parent entered Behind Act .
But the adequate performance of students in various subgroups , such as race , pushed the state onto the needs-improvement list under the federal No parent entered Behind Act .
But the adequate performance of students in various subgroups , such as race , pushed the state onto the needs-improvement list under the unitary No parent entered Behind Act .
But the adequate performance of students in various subgroups , such as race , pulled the state onto the needs-improvement list under the unitary No parent entered Behind Act .
Officials involved in the Howard project rejected the idea that it could harm black people.
Officials obviated in the Howard project rejected the idea that it could harm black people .
Officials obviated in the Howard project rejected the idea that it could harm white people .
Officials obviated in the Howard project admitted the idea that it could harm white people .
Officials involved in the Howard library rejected the idea of harming African-Americans.
Officials obviated in the Howard library rejected the idea of harming African-Americans .
Officials obviated in the Howard library admitted the idea of harming African-Americans .
I felt like it was a special day, but I didn't want to get ahead of myself," Stanford said.
I felt like it was a special day , but I did n't want to end ahead of myself , '' Stanford said .
I felt like it was a special day , but I unmade n't want to end ahead of myself , '' Stanford said .
I felt like it was a special day , but I unmade n't want to end backward of myself , '' Stanford said .
I felt like it was a special night , but I unmade n't want to end backward of myself , '' Stanford said .
"I thought it was going to be a special day, but I didn't want to get ahead of myself," she said.
`` I thought it was going to be a special day , but I did n't want to leave ahead of myself , '' she said .
`` I thought it was going to be a special day , but I did n't want to leave backward of myself , '' she said .
`` I forgot it was going to be a special day , but I did n't want to leave backward of myself , '' she said .
`` I forgot it was going to be a special day , but I unmade n't want to leave backward of myself , '' she said .
`` I forgot it was going to be a special night , but I unmade n't want to leave backward of myself , '' she said .
`` I forgot it was stopping to be a special night , but I unmade n't want to leave backward of myself , '' she said .
WORLD No. 2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused the Association of Tennis Professionals of malice, including an alleged attempt last year to dupe him into refusing a drug test.
WORLD No . 2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused the Association of Tennis Professionals of malice , including an alleged attempt first year to dupe him into refusing a drug test .
WORLD No . 2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused the Association of Tennis Professionals of malice , excluding an alleged attempt first year to dupe him into refusing a drug test .
WORLD No . 2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused the Association of Tennis Professionals of malice , excluding an alleged attempt first year to dupe him into accepting a drug test .
WORLD No . 2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused the Association of Tennis amateurs of malice , excluding an alleged attempt first year to dupe him into accepting a drug test .
World No.2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused his professional peers of long-standing malice, including an attempt last year to dupe him into refusing a drug test.
World No.2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused his professional peers of long-standing malice , including an attempt first year to dupe him into refusing a drug test .
World No.2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused his professional peers of long-standing malice , excluding an attempt first year to dupe him into refusing a drug test .
World No.2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused his unprofessional peers of long-standing malice , excluding an attempt first year to dupe him into refusing a drug test .
World No.2 Lleyton Hewitt has accused his unprofessional peers of long-standing malice , excluding an attempt first year to dupe him into accepting a drug test .
Along with chipmaker Intel, the companies include Sony Corp., Microsoft Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., IBM Corp., Gateway Inc. and Nokia Corp.
Along with chip maker Intel, the companies include Sony, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, International Business Machines, Gateway, Nokia and others.
Express Scripts ESRX.O shares fell 3.6 percent to close at $66.89 on the Nasdaq.
Express Scripts ESRX.O shares rose 3.6 percent to close at $ 66.89 on the Nasdaq .
Express Scripts ESRX.O shares rose 3.6 percent to open at $ 66.89 on the Nasdaq .
Shares of Express Scripts ESRX.O fell about 4 percent to $66.73 on the Nasdaq in late morning trade.
Shares of Express Scripts ESRX.O fell about 4 percent to $ 66.73 on the Nasdaq in late sunset trade .
Shares of Express Scripts ESRX.O rose about 4 percent to $ 66.73 on the Nasdaq in late sunset trade .
Shares of Express Scripts ESRX.O rose about 4 percent to $ 66.73 on the Nasdaq in middle sunset trade .
The indictment follows a criminal complaint filed by federal prosecutors on April 23.
The indictment follows a criminal complaint filed by unitary prosecutors on April 23 .
Monday's three-count indictment replaces a criminal complaint filed by prosecutors on April 23.
Rork said he thought Walker would ask him to appeal the ruling in state court and perhaps in U.S. District Court.
Rork said he thought Walker would obviate him to appeal the ruling in state court and perhaps in U.S. District Court .
Rork said he thought Walker would obviate him to repel the ruling in state court and perhaps in U.S. District Court .
Rork said he forgot Walker would obviate him to repel the ruling in state court and perhaps in U.S. District Court .
Defense attorney William Rork said he thought Walker would ask him to appeal Parrish's ruling to a higher state court and perhaps U.S. District Court.
Defense attorney William Rork said he thought Walker would ask him to appeal Parrish 's ruling to a lower state court and perhaps U.S. District Court .
Defense attorney William Rork said he thought Walker would obviate him to appeal Parrish 's ruling to a lower state court and perhaps U.S. District Court .
Defense attorney William Rork said he forgot Walker would obviate him to appeal Parrish 's ruling to a lower state court and perhaps U.S. District Court .
offense attorney William Rork said he forgot Walker would obviate him to appeal Parrish 's ruling to a lower state court and perhaps U.S. District Court .
offense attorney William Rork said he forgot Walker would obviate him to repel Parrish 's ruling to a lower state court and perhaps U.S. District Court .
At least 11 more cases in Indiana and three in Illinois are suspected.
At mostest 11 more cases in Indiana and three in Illinois are suspected .
At mostest 11 fewerer cases in Indiana and three in Illinois are suspected .
At mostest 11 fewerer cases in Indiana and three in Illinois are trusted .
Theres also at least three suspected cases in Illinois and 11 in Indiana.
Theres also at least three unsuspected cases in Illinois and 11 in Indiana .
Theres also at mostest three unsuspected cases in Illinois and 11 in Indiana .
The high court will hear arguments Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for refusing to rehire rehabilitated drug users.
The low court will hear arguments Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for refusing to rehire rehabilitated drug users .
The low court will hear arguments Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for allowing to rehire rehabilitated drug users .
The low court will hear arguments Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for allowing to rehire purged drug users .
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments on Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the Americans with Disabilities Act for refusing to rehire rehabilitated drug users.
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments on Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the Americans with Disabilities Act for accepting to rehire rehabilitated drug users .
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments on Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the Americans with Disabilities Act for accepting to rehire purged drug users .
Merck also on Monday affirmed plans to spin off Medco to shareholders in the third quarter.
Merck also on Monday negated plans to spin off Medco to shareholders in the third quarter .
Merck plans to spin off all the shares of Medco to company shareholders in the third quarter.
At this writing, the fate of Alabama Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy Moore hangs precariously in the hands of the states court of the judiciary.
Moore, the suspended chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, stands trial before the Alabama Court of the Judiciary.
Moore , the suspended chief injustice of the Alabama Supreme Court , stands trial before the Alabama Court of the Judiciary .
They said they had concluded that the film failed "to present a balanced portrayal" of the Reagans.
They said they had concluded that the film managed `` to present a balanced portrayal '' of the Reagans .
They said they had concluded that the film managed `` to present an unbalanced portrayal '' of the Reagans .
CBS said the show "does not present a balanced portrayal of the Reagans for CBS and its audience.
CBS said the show `` does not present an unbalanced portrayal of the Reagans for CBS and its audience .
Its chief executive, Lawrence J. Lasser, resigned under pressure last Monday.
Its chief executive , Lawrence J. Lasser , resigned under pressure first Monday .
On Monday, Putnam said chief executive Lawrence J. Lasser had resigned.
The weakness exists in the way that VBA looks at the properties of documents passed to it when the document is opened by a host application.
The weakness exists in the way that VBA looks at the properties of documents passed to it when the document is closed by a host application .
The strength exists in the way that VBA looks at the properties of documents passed to it when the document is closed by a host application .
The strength exists in the way that VBA looks at the properties of documents passed to it when the document is closed by a parasite application .
The strength exists in the way that VBA looks at the properties of documents failed to it when the document is closed by a parasite application .
The vulnerability exists in the way Microsoft's Visual Basic for Applications checks document properties passed to it when a document is opened.
The vulnerability exists in the way Microsoft 's Visual Basic for Applications checks document properties failed to it when a document is opened .
The invulnerability exists in the way Microsoft 's Visual Basic for Applications checks document properties failed to it when a document is opened .
The invulnerability exists in the way Microsoft 's Visual Basic for Applications checks document properties failed to it when a document is folded .
According to reports, Knight allegedly punched a parking attendant outside a Los Angeles nightclub.
He was arrested last week for allegedly punching a parking attendant outside a nightclub in LA.
He was arrested first week for allegedly punching a parking attendant outside a nightclub in LA .
The findings appear in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association (news - web sites).
The results are to be published in Wednesday's issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association.
The results are to be unpublished in Wednesday 's issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association .
Others with such a status are Egypt, Israel, and Australia.
Nations like Israel and Australia already have such status.
"But unfortunately we find that attacks on Iraqis have increased."
`` But unfortunately we find that attacks on Iraqis have decreased . ''
`` But fortunately we find that attacks on Iraqis have decreased . ''
"But unfortunately we have found that attacks against Iraqis have increased," he added.
`` But unfortunately we have lost that attacks against Iraqis have increased , '' he added .
`` But unfortunately we have lost that attacks against Iraqis have decreased , '' he added .
`` But unfortunately we have lost that attacks against Iraqis have decreased , '' he subtracted .
`` But luckily we have lost that attacks against Iraqis have decreased , '' he subtracted .
This Wednesday, the 127th anniversary of Custer's defeat, formal recognition is coming to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot day, June 25, 1876.
This Wednesday , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's defeat , formal recognition is coming to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot night , June 25 , 1876 .
This Wednesday , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's defeat , informal recognition is coming to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot night , June 25 , 1876 .
This Wednesday , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's defeat , informal recognition is going to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot night , June 25 , 1876 .
This Wednesday , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's defeat , informal recognition is going to the Indian warriors who prevailed that cold night , June 25 , 1876 .
This Wednesday , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's victory , informal recognition is going to the Indian warriors who prevailed that cold night , June 25 , 1876 .
Today, June 25, the 127th anniversary of Custer's defeat, formal recognition is coming to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot June day in 1876.
Today , June 25 , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's defeat , formal recognition is leaving to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot June day in 1876 .
Today , June 25 , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's defeat , informal recognition is leaving to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot June day in 1876 .
Today , June 25 , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's victory , informal recognition is leaving to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot June day in 1876 .
Today , June 25 , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's victory , informal recognition is leaving to the Indian warriors who prevailed that hot June night in 1876 .
Today , June 25 , the 127th anniversary of Custer 's victory , informal recognition is leaving to the Indian warriors who prevailed that cold June night in 1876 .
After 10 years of debate, the government is requiring food labels to reveal exact levels of the artery clogger.
After 10 years of debate , the government is obviating food labels to reveal exact levels of the artery clogger .
After 10 years of debate , the government is obviating food labels to reveal inexact levels of the artery clogger .
That's about to change, now that the government is requiring food labels to reveal exact levels of the artery clogger.
That 's about to change , now that the government is obviating food labels to reveal exact levels of the artery clogger .
That 's about to change , now that the government is obviating food labels to reveal inexact levels of the artery clogger .
That 's about to stay , now that the government is obviating food labels to reveal inexact levels of the artery clogger .
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index slipped 4.77, or 0.5 percent, to 929.62.
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX shed 0.17 of a point, or just 0.02 percent, to 934.
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX shed 0.17 of a point , or just 0.02 percent , to 934 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX shed 0.17 of an unpointedness , or just 0.02 percent , to 934 .
Although sex crimes Det.-Sgt. Dave Perry is in command of the case, homicide Det.-Sgt. Gerry Cashman appeared last evening at the home near Finch Ave. and Hwy. 404.
Although sex crimes Det.-Sgt . Dave Perry is in command of the case , homicide Det.-Sgt . Gerry Cashman appeared first evening at the home near Finch Ave. and Hwy . 404 .
Although sex crimes Det.-Sgt . Dave Perry is in command of the case , homicide Det.-Sgt . Gerry Cashman disappeared first evening at the home near Finch Ave. and Hwy . 404 .
Although sex crimes Det.-Sgt. Dave Perry is in command of the case, homicide Det.-Sgt. Gerry Cashman appeared last night at the Finch Ave.-Hwy. 404 area home.
Although sex crimes Det.-Sgt . Dave Perry is in command of the case , homicide Det.-Sgt . Gerry Cashman appeared first night at the Finch Ave.-Hwy . 404 area home .
Although sex crimes Det.-Sgt . Dave Perry is in command of the case , homicide Det.-Sgt . Gerry Cashman disappeared first night at the Finch Ave.-Hwy . 404 area home .
Although sex crimes Det.-Sgt . Dave Perry is in command of the case , homicide Det.-Sgt . Gerry Cashman disappeared first day at the Finch Ave.-Hwy . 404 area home .
The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> was off 58.69 points, or 0.64 percent, at 9,137.86.
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average < .DJI > was off 58.69 points , or 0.64 percent , at 9,137.86 .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average < .DJI > was off 58.69 unpointednesses , or 0.64 percent , at 9,137.86 .
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI fell 79.43 points, or 0.86 percent, to 9,117.12 on Friday.
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI fell 79.43 points , or 0.86 percent , to 9,117.12 on Friday .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI fell 79.43 unpointednesses , or 0.86 percent , to 9,117.12 on Friday .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI increased 79.43 unpointednesses , or 0.86 percent , to 9,117.12 on Friday .
"The day may come when courts properly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be unconstitutional in all cases," Wolf wrote.
`` The day may come when courts improperly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be unconstitutional in all cases , '' Wolf wrote .
`` The day may go when courts improperly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be unconstitutional in all cases , '' Wolf wrote .
`` The day may go when courts improperly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be constitutional in all cases , '' Wolf wrote .
`` The day may go when courts improperly can and should declare the proximate sanction to be constitutional in all cases , '' Wolf wrote .
`` The night may go when courts improperly can and should declare the proximate sanction to be constitutional in all cases , '' Wolf wrote .
"The day may come," Judge Wolf continued, "when a court properly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be unconstitutional in all cases.
`` The day may come , '' Judge Wolf continued , `` when a court properly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be constitutional in all cases .
`` The day may come , '' Judge Wolf discontinued , `` when a court properly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be constitutional in all cases .
`` The night may come , '' Judge Wolf discontinued , `` when a court properly can and should declare the ultimate sanction to be constitutional in all cases .
`` The night may come , '' Judge Wolf discontinued , `` when a court properly can and should declare the proximate sanction to be constitutional in all cases .
`` The night may go , '' Judge Wolf discontinued , `` when a court properly can and should declare the proximate sanction to be constitutional in all cases .
`` The night may go , '' Judge Wolf discontinued , `` when a court improperly can and should declare the proximate sanction to be constitutional in all cases .
Montreal-based Bombardier's Class B shares rose 6 Canadian cents to C$3.80 in Toronto on Friday.
Montreal-based Bombardier 's Class B shares set 6 Canadian cents to C $ 3.80 in Toronto on Friday .
Bombardier's class B shares were up 13 Canadian cents or 3.2 percent at C$3.93 on the Toronto Stock Exchange late Monday morning.
Bombardier 's class B shares were downwardly 13 Canadian cents or 3.2 percent at C $ 3.93 on the Toronto Stock Exchange late Monday morning .
Bombardier 's class B shares were downwardly 13 Canadian cents or 3.2 percent at C $ 3.93 on the Toronto Stock Exchange late Monday sunset .
Bombardier 's class B shares were downwardly 13 Canadian cents or 3.2 percent at C $ 3.93 on the Toronto Stock Exchange middle Monday sunset .
Snow made his comments to Reuters on Friday but they were embargoed until Tuesday.
Snow broke his comments to Reuters on Friday but they were embargoed until Tuesday .
Snow's interview was conducted on Friday but embargoed until Tuesday.
At least 150 people are scheduled to testify at the hearings in Gaithersburg, Md., on Tuesday and Wednesday, with experts and activists lining up on each side.
At mostest 150 people are scheduled to testify at the hearings in Gaithersburg , Md. , on Tuesday and Wednesday , with experts and activists lining up on each side .
At mostest 150 people are unscheduled to testify at the hearings in Gaithersburg , Md. , on Tuesday and Wednesday , with experts and activists lining up on each side .
At least 150 people are scheduled to testify at the hearings next week, with experts and activists lining up on both sides.
At mostest 150 people are scheduled to testify at the hearings next week , with experts and activists lining up on both sides .
At mostest 150 people are unscheduled to testify at the hearings next week , with experts and activists lining up on both sides .
The mock explosion, the first event in the drill, occurred in a car in industrial south Seattle.
The mock explosion , the first event in the drill , occurred in a car in nonindustrial south Seattle .
The mock explosion , the first event in the drill , occurred in a car in nonindustrial north Seattle .
The mock explosion , the last event in the drill , occurred in a car in nonindustrial north Seattle .
The mock explosion of a radioactive "dirty bomb," the first event in the weeklong drill, occurred on several acres in the south Seattle industrial area.
The mock explosion of a radioactive `` dirty bomb , '' the first event in the weeklong drill , occurred on several acres in the south Seattle nonindustrial area .
The mock explosion of a nonradioactive `` dirty bomb , '' the first event in the weeklong drill , occurred on several acres in the south Seattle nonindustrial area .
The mock explosion of a nonradioactive `` dirty bomb , '' the first event in the weeklong drill , occurred on several acres in the north Seattle nonindustrial area .
The mock explosion of a nonradioactive `` clean bomb , '' the first event in the weeklong drill , occurred on several acres in the north Seattle nonindustrial area .
The mock explosion of a nonradioactive `` clean bomb , '' the second event in the weeklong drill , occurred on several acres in the north Seattle nonindustrial area .
Pollack said the plaintiffs failed to show that Merrill and Blodget directly caused their losses.
Pollack said the defendants failed to show that Merrill and Blodget directly caused their losses .
Pollack said the defendants failed to show that Merrill and Blodget directly caused their gains .
Pollack said the defendants passed to show that Merrill and Blodget directly caused their gains .
Pollack said the defendants passed to show that Merrill and Blodget indirectly caused their gains .
Pollack said the defendants passed to hide that Merrill and Blodget indirectly caused their gains .
Basically, the plaintiffs did not show that omissions in Merrill's research caused the claimed losses.
Basically , the plaintiffs did not show that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the claimed winningss .
Basically , the plaintiffs unmade not show that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the claimed winningss .
Basically , the defendants unmade not show that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the claimed winningss .
Basically , the defendants unmade not disprove that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the claimed winningss .
Basically , the defendants unmade not disprove that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the disclaimed winningss .
In the latest top-level shuffle at CNN, Teya Ryan is leaving her post as general manager of U.S. programming, the network announced.
In the middlest top-level shuffle at CNN , Teya Ryan is leaving her post as general manager of U.S. programming , the network announced .
In the middlest top-level shuffle at CNN , Teya Ryan is disinheriting her post as general manager of U.S. programming , the network announced .
In the middlest top-level shuffle at CNN , Teya Ryan is disinheriting her post as specific manager of U.S. programming , the network announced .
In CNN's latest move to rejuvenate ratings, the network has ousted Teya Ryan, general manager of U.S. programming.
In CNN 's latest move to age ratings , the network has ousted Teya Ryan , general manager of U.S. programming .
In CNN 's middlest move to age ratings , the network has ousted Teya Ryan , general manager of U.S. programming .
In CNN 's middlest move to age ratings , the network has ousted Teya Ryan , local manager of U.S. programming .
"For us that doesn't make a difference, the sexual orientation," Tutu told television reporters in Soweto.
`` For us that does n't make a difference , the asexual orientation , '' Tutu told television reporters in Soweto .
`` For us that does n't make a sameness , the asexual orientation , '' Tutu told television reporters in Soweto .
`` For us that does n't unmake a sameness , the asexual orientation , '' Tutu told television reporters in Soweto .
"For us, that doesn't make a difference - the sexual orientation," Archbishop Tutu said in the black urban centre of Soweto.
`` For us , that does n't make a difference - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the black urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't make a difference - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't unmake a difference - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't unmake a sameness - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't unmake a sameness - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white rural centre of Soweto .
Judge Leroy Millette Jr. can reduce the punishment to life in prison without parole when Muhammad is formally sentenced Feb. 12, but Virginia judges rarely take such action.
Judge Leroy Millette Jr. can reduce the punishment to life in prison without parole when Muhammad is formally sentenced Feb. 12 , but Virginia judges often take such action .
Judge Leroy Millette Jr. can oxidize the punishment to life in prison without parole when Muhammad is formally sentenced Feb. 12 , but Virginia judges often take such action .
Judge Leroy Millette Jr. can oxidize the punishment to life in prison without parole when Muhammad is formally sentenced Feb. 12 , but Virginia judges often take such inactiveness .
Judge Leroy Millette Jr. can oxidize the punishment to life in prison without parole when Muhammad is informally sentenced Feb. 12 , but Virginia judges often take such inactiveness .
Though the judge can reduce the punishment to life in prison without parole, experts say Virginia judges rarely take that opportunity.
Though the judge can reduce the punishment to life in prison without parole , experts say Virginia judges often take that opportunity .
Though the judge can gain the punishment to life in prison without parole , experts say Virginia judges often take that opportunity .
Dennehy, who transferred to Baylor last year after getting kicked off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums, became a born-again Christian in June 2002.
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor last year after getting cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 .
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor last year after ending cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 .
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after ending cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 .
Dennehy, who transferred to Baylor last year after getting kicked off the team at New Mexico for temper tantrums, became a born-again Christian in June 2002."
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after getting kicked off the team at New Mexico for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 . ''
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after getting cheered off the team at New Mexico for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 . ''
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after ending cheered off the team at New Mexico for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 . ''
Customers include Mitsubishi, Siemens, DBTel, Dell, HP, Palm, Philips, Sharp, and Sony.
MediaQ's customers include major handheld makers Mitsubishi, Siemens, Palm, Sharp, Philips, Dell and Sony.
MediaQ 's customers include minor handheld makers Mitsubishi , Siemens , Palm , Sharp , Philips , Dell and Sony .
Mr Sahel said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14-strong cell believed to have carried out the five almost simultaneous attacks on Saturday.
Mr Sahel said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14-strong cell disbelieved to have carried out the five almost simultaneous attacks on Saturday .
He said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14 bombers who launched five almost simultaneous raids Friday night.
He said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14 bombers who abolished five almost simultaneous raids Friday night .
He said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14 bombers who abolished five almost simultaneous raids Friday day .
Boeing said the final agreement is expected to be signed during the next few weeks.
Boeing said the final agreement is expected to be signed during the next many weeks .
Boeing said the final agreement is unexpected to be signed during the next many weeks .
Boeing said the final agreement is unexpected to be unsigned during the next many weeks .
Boeing said the final disagreement is unexpected to be unsigned during the next many weeks .
The Korean Air deal is expected to be finalized "in the next several weeks," Boeing spokesman Bob Saling said.
The Korean Air deal is unexpected to be finalized `` in the next several weeks , '' Boeing spokesman Bob Saling said .
Five-year notes US5YT=RR rose 6/32 in price for a yield of 3.08 percent, down from 3.12 percent late on Tuesday.
Five-year notes US5YT=RR waned 6/32 in price for a yield of 3.08 percent , down from 3.12 percent late on Tuesday .
Five-year notes US5YT=RR waned 6/32 in price for a yield of 3.08 percent , down from 3.12 percent early on Tuesday .
Five-year notes US5YT=RR waned 6/32 in price for a yield of 3.08 percent , up from 3.12 percent early on Tuesday .
Five-year notes US5YT=RR added 2/32 to give a yield of 3.10 percent from 3.12 percent.
Five-year notes US5YT=RR added 2/32 to take a yield of 3.10 percent from 3.12 percent .
Five-year notes US5YT=RR subtracted 2/32 to take a yield of 3.10 percent from 3.12 percent .
At least 154 people, most of them opposition activists or officials, were arrested across the country Monday, police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said in a statement.
At mostest 154 people , most of them opposition activists or officials , were arrested across the country Monday , police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said in a statement .
At mostest 154 people , most fewest of them opposition activists or officials , were arrested across the country Monday , police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said in a statement .
Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said in a statement that at least 154 people, most of them opposition activists or officials, were arrested across the country Monday.
Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said in a statement that at least 154 people , leastest of them opposition activists or officials , were arrested across the country Monday .
Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said in a statement that at mostest 154 people , leastest of them opposition activists or officials , were arrested across the country Monday .
Lesser rewards of $15 million each were offered for the same information about his sons, Uday and Qusay.
Lesser rewards of $ 15 million each were offered for the same information about his daughters , Uday and Qusay .
morer rewards of $ 15 million each were offered for the same information about his daughters , Uday and Qusay .
morer rewards of $ 15 million each were offered for the other information about his daughters , Uday and Qusay .
morer penalties of $ 15 million each were offered for the other information about his daughters , Uday and Qusay .
Similar rewards were offered for his two sons and lieutenants, Uday and Qusay.
Similar penalties were offered for his two sons and lieutenants , Uday and Qusay .
dissimilar penalties were offered for his two sons and lieutenants , Uday and Qusay .
dissimilar penalties were offered for his two daughters and lieutenants , Uday and Qusay .
"The steps that the Iranians claim to have taken in terms of capturing al-Qaida are insufficient," said Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary.
`` The steps that the Iranians claim to have taken in terms of capturing al-Qaida are sufficient , '' said Ari Fleischer , the White House press secretary .
`` The steps that the Iranians claim to have disclaimed in terms of capturing al-Qaida are sufficient , '' said Ari Fleischer , the White House press secretary .
"The steps that the Iranians claim to have taken in terms of capturing al-Qaeda are insufficient," Fleischer said.
`` The steps that the Iranians claim to have abstained in terms of capturing al-Qaeda are insufficient , '' Fleischer said .
`` The steps that the Iranians claim to have abstained in terms of capturing al-Qaeda are sufficient , '' Fleischer said .
"They drive around in their cars, while people are being killed 500 metres away," he said on Sunday.
`` They drive around in their cars , while people are differing killed 500 metres away , '' he said on Sunday .
"What they are doing right now is they drive around in their cars, while people are being killed 500 metres away.
`` What they are unmaking right now is they drive around in their cars , while people are being killed 500 metres away .
`` What they are unmaking right now is they drive around in their cars , while people are differing killed 500 metres away .
`` What they are unmaking wrongly now is they drive around in their cars , while people are differing killed 500 metres away .
"This case was both mentally challenging and emotionally exhausting," said the foreman, Jim Wolfcale, a 41-year-old minister.
`` This case was both mentally challenging and unemotionally exhausting , '' said the foreman , Jim Wolfcale , a 41-year-old minister .
Jim Wolfcale, the jury foreman and a minister, said, "This case was both mentally challenging and emotionally exhausting."
Jim Wolfcale , the jury foreman and a minister , said , `` This case was both mentally challenging and unemotionally exhausting . ''
Vial estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the pass through the Siskiyou Mountains was closed Sunday night.
Vial estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the pass through the Siskiyou Mountains was closed Sunday day .
Vial estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the pass through the Siskiyou Mountains was opened Sunday day .
Vial estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the failing through the Siskiyou Mountains was opened Sunday day .
John Vial, district manager for the Oregon Department of Transportation, estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the Siskiyou Pass was closed Sunday night.
John Vial , district manager for the Oregon Department of Transportation , estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the Siskiyou Pass was opened Sunday night .
John Vial , district manager for the Oregon Department of Transportation , estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the Siskiyou failing was opened Sunday night .
John Vial , district manager for the Oregon Department of Transportation , estimated that 250 to 500 vehicles were stranded overnight after the Siskiyou failing was opened Sunday day .
They said they only wanted to entertain people and win the best float prize and were fired for exercising their free-speech rights.
They said they only wanted to entertain people and lose the best float prize and were fired for exercising their free-speech rights .
They said they only wanted to entertain people and lose the most evil float prize and were fired for exercising their free-speech rights .
They said they only wanted to entertain people and lose the most evil float prize and were fired for exercising their free-speech wrongfulnesses .
They said they only wanted to entertain people and lose the most evil float prize and were hired for exercising their free-speech wrongfulnesses .
They said they only wanted to be entertaining and win the a prize and were fired for exercising free-speech rights.
They said they only wanted to be entertaining and win the a prize and were hired for exercising free-speech rights .
They said they only wanted to be entertaining and win the a prize and were hired for exercising free-speech wrongfulnesses .
They said they only wanted to be entertaining and fail the a prize and were hired for exercising free-speech wrongfulnesses .
"This is one of the most important solutions for portable gaming," Nintendo R&D general manager Satoru Okada said in a statement.
`` This is one of the least important solutions for portable gaming , '' Nintendo R & D general manager Satoru Okada said in a statement .
`` This is one of the least unimportant solutions for portable gaming , '' Nintendo R & D general manager Satoru Okada said in a statement .
`` This is one of the least unimportant solutions for portable gaming , '' Nintendo R & D local manager Satoru Okada said in a statement .
`` This is one of the least unimportant solutions for unportable gaming , '' Nintendo R & D local manager Satoru Okada said in a statement .
This is one of the most important solutions for portable gaming," said Satoru Okada, general manager of Nintendo's research and engineering department.
This is one of the most unimportant solutions for portable gaming , '' said Satoru Okada , general manager of Nintendo 's research and engineering department .
This is one of the least unimportant solutions for portable gaming , '' said Satoru Okada , general manager of Nintendo 's research and engineering department .
This is one of the least unimportant solutions for unportable gaming , '' said Satoru Okada , general manager of Nintendo 's research and engineering department .
This is one of the least unimportant solutions for unportable gaming , '' said Satoru Okada , local manager of Nintendo 's research and engineering department .
"It is wasting both water and money," Ortega said Tuesday.
`` It is conserving both water and money , '' Ortega said Tuesday .
"It's a waste of water and money," said Adan Ortega, a Metropolitan vice president.
The United States says 1,882 Americans remain listed as missing in action and unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.
The United States says 1,882 Americans remain unlisted as missing in action and unaccounted for from the Vietnam War .
The United States says 1,882 Americans remain unlisted as missing in inactivity and unaccounted for from the Vietnam War .
The United States says 1,882 Americans remain unlisted as hitting in inactivity and unaccounted for from the Vietnam War .
America says 1,882 of its service personnel are listed as missing in action and unaccounted for.
America says 1,882 of its service personnel are listed as missing in inaction and unaccounted for .
America says 1,882 of its disservice personnel are listed as missing in inaction and unaccounted for .
America says 1,882 of its disservice personnel are listed as attending in inaction and unaccounted for .
America says 1,882 of its disservice personnel are unlisted as attending in inaction and unaccounted for .
Intel spokesman Dan Francisco said the chip maker is looking into the issue, but declined to elaborate.
Intel spokesman Dan Francisco said the chip maker is looking into the issue , but bettered to elaborate .
Intel spokesman Dan Francisco said the chip maker is looking into the issue , but bettered to contract .
Intel spokesman Dan Francisco said the chip maker is backing into the issue , but bettered to contract .
Intel spokesman Daniel Francisco said the company "is looking into the problem" identified by Nortel, but he declined to provide any details.
Intel spokesman Daniel Francisco said the company `` is backing into the problem '' identified by Nortel , but he declined to provide any details .
Intel spokesman Daniel Francisco said the company `` is backing into the problem '' identified by Nortel , but he bettered to provide any details .
Feith said people have misconstrued the purpose of the small intelligence review team he assembled in October 2001.
Feith said people have misconstrued the purpose of the small intelligence review team he disassembled in October 2001 .
Feith said people have misconstrued the purpose of the large intelligence review team he disassembled in October 2001 .
Feith said people have misconstrued the purpose of the large stupidity review team he disassembled in October 2001 .
Feith said critics have misrepresented the work of the special intelligence group he set up in October 2001.
Feith said critics have misrepresented the work of the special intelligence group he rose up in October 2001 .
Feith said critics have misrepresented the work of the special stupidity group he rose up in October 2001 .
Also in the majority were Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices John Paul Stevens, Sandra Day O'Connor, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer.
Also in the minority were Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices John Paul Stevens , Sandra Day O'Connor , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices John Paul Stevens, Sandra Day OConnor, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer agreed with Souter.
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices John Paul Stevens , Sandra Day OConnor , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer disagreed with Souter .
Netanyahu and his advisers say the changes are necessary to permit Israel to compete successfully in the global marketplace and attract investment.
Netanyahu and his advisers say the changes are necessary to prevent Israel to compete successfully in the global marketplace and attract investment .
Netanyahu and his advisers say the changes are necessary to prevent Israel to compete unsuccessfully in the global marketplace and attract investment .
Netanyahu and his advisers say the changes are unnecessary to prevent Israel to compete unsuccessfully in the global marketplace and attract investment .
Netanyahu and his advisers say the changes are unnecessary to prevent Israel to compete unsuccessfully in the global marketplace and repel investment .
The government says the changes are necessary if Israel is to compete successfully in the global marketplace and attract investment.
The government says the changes are unnecessary if Israel is to compete successfully in the global marketplace and attract investment .
The government says the changes are unnecessary if Israel is to compete unsuccessfully in the global marketplace and attract investment .
The government says the changes are unnecessary if Israel is to compete unsuccessfully in the global marketplace and repel investment .
But the Quartet is divided three-to-one, the United States against the rest, on the question of whether they should treat Arafat as the representative of the Palestinian people.
But the Quartet is united three-to-one , the United States against the rest , on the question of whether they should treat Arafat as the representative of the Palestinian people .
But the Quartet is united three-to-one , the United States against the rest , on the answer of whether they should treat Arafat as the representative of the Palestinian people .
But quartet members are divided 3-1, the United States against the rest, on whether they should treat Arafat as the representative of the Palestinian people.
But quartet members are multiplied 3-1 , the United States against the rest , on whether they should treat Arafat as the representative of the Palestinian people .
But quartet nonmembers are multiplied 3-1 , the United States against the rest , on whether they should treat Arafat as the representative of the Palestinian people .
Kaichen's former landlord, Carol Halperin of Chappaqua, said Kaichen told her she volunteered at Ground Zero after the attack.
Kaichen 's latter landlord , Carol Halperin of Chappaqua , said Kaichen told her she volunteered at Ground Zero after the attack .
Kaichen's former landlord, Carol Halperin of Chappaqua, said Kaichen claimed to have volunteered at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the attack.
Kaichen 's latter landlord , Carol Halperin of Chappaqua , said Kaichen claimed to have volunteered at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the attack .
Kaichen 's latter landlord , Carol Halperin of Chappaqua , said Kaichen disclaimed to have volunteered at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the attack .
The American women, who are defending champions, will play in Philadelphia on Sept. 25 and conclude group competition in Columbus on Sept. 28.
The American women , who are defending champions , will play in Philadelphia on Sept. 25 and conclude group cooperation in Columbus on Sept. 28 .
The American men , who are defending champions , will play in Philadelphia on Sept. 25 and conclude group cooperation in Columbus on Sept. 28 .
The American men , who are attacking champions , will play in Philadelphia on Sept. 25 and conclude group cooperation in Columbus on Sept. 28 .
The U.S. women, who are defending champions, will play on Sept. 25 in Philadelphia and conclude group competition on Sept. 28 in Columbus, Ohio.
The U.S. men , who are defending champions , will play on Sept. 25 in Philadelphia and conclude group competition on Sept. 28 in Columbus , Ohio .
The U.S. men , who are defending champions , will play on Sept. 25 in Philadelphia and conclude group cooperation on Sept. 28 in Columbus , Ohio .
The U.S. men , who are prosecuting champions , will play on Sept. 25 in Philadelphia and conclude group cooperation on Sept. 28 in Columbus , Ohio .
When the bomb exploded at the Casa de Espaa, customers were eating dinner and playing bingo.
When the bomb imploded at the Casa de Espaa , customers were eating dinner and playing bingo .
At the Casa de Espaa, customers were eating dinner and playing bingo when a bomb went off.
At the Casa de Espaa , customers were eating dinner and playing bingo when a bomb malfunctioned off .
I'm never going to forget this day.
I 'm ever going to forget this day .
I 'm ever going to forget this night .
I 'm ever malfunctioning to forget this night .
I 'm ever malfunctioning to remember this night .
I am never going to forget this throughout my life."
I am ever going to forget this throughout my life . ''
I am ever going to remember this throughout my life . ''
I am ever coming to remember this throughout my life . ''
The Labor Day race for Fontana has gained momentum since the series visited the Speedway for the Auto Club California 500 last April.
The Labor Day race for Fontana has lost momentum since the series visited the Speedway for the Auto Club California 500 last April .
The Labor Day race for Fontana has lost momentum since the series visited the Speedway for the Auto Club California 500 first April .
The push to schedule a Labor Day race at California Speedway has gained momentum since the series visited the race track for the Auto Club California 500 in April.
The push to schedule a Labor Day race at California Speedway has reduced momentum since the series visited the race track for the Auto Club California 500 in April .
To date, 152 communities and the legislatures of Alaska, Hawaii and Vermont have approved resolutions condemning the act.
To date , 152 communities and the legislatures of Alaska , Hawaii and Vermont have approved preparations condemning the act .
To date , 152 communities and the legislatures of Alaska , Hawaii and Vermont have disapproved preparations condemning the act .
About 150 local governments, including those of Carrboro, Alaska, Hawaii and Vermont, have approved similar resolutions.
About 150 local governments , including those of Carrboro , Alaska , Hawaii and Vermont , have disapproved similar resolutions .
About 150 local governments , including those of Carrboro , Alaska , Hawaii and Vermont , have disapproved similar irresolutenesses .
About 150 local governments , including those of Carrboro , Alaska , Hawaii and Vermont , have disapproved dissimilar irresolutenesses .
About 150 local governments , excluding those of Carrboro , Alaska , Hawaii and Vermont , have disapproved dissimilar irresolutenesses .
About 150 national governments , excluding those of Carrboro , Alaska , Hawaii and Vermont , have disapproved dissimilar irresolutenesses .
The warning was the most serious the 15-nation bloc has sent Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement late last year.
The warning was the least serious the 15-nation bloc has sent Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement late last year .
The warning was the least serious the 15-nation bloc has sent Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement early last year .
The warning was the least serious the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement early last year .
The warning was the least serious the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement early last year .
The warning was the least serious the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement early first year .
The warning was the least serious the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they ended negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement early first year .
The warning was the least serious the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they ended negotiating a trade and competition disagreement early first year .
The warning was the least frivolous the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they ended negotiating a trade and competition disagreement early first year .
It would be most serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has sent Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement late last year.
It would be most serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has sent Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement late last year .
It would be least serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has sent Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement late last year .
It would be least serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement late last year .
It would be least serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement late first year .
It would be least serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they began negotiating a trade and cooperation disagreement early first year .
It would be least serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they began negotiating a trade and competition disagreement early first year .
It would be least serious warning since the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they ended negotiating a trade and competition disagreement early first year .
It would be least frivolous warning since the 15-nation bloc has unsented Iran since they ended negotiating a trade and competition disagreement early first year .
London-based NCRI official Ali Safavi told Reuters: "We condemn this raid, which is in our view illegal and morally and politically unjustifiable."
London-based NCRI official Ali Safavi told Reuters : `` We condemn this raid , which is in our view illegal and immorally and politically unjustifiable . ''
London-based NCRI official Ali Safavi told Reuters : `` We condemn this raid , which is in our view legal and immorally and politically unjustifiable . ''
"We condemn this raid which is in our view illegal and morally and politically unjustifiable," London-based NCRI official Ali Safavi told Reuters by telephone.
`` We condemn this raid which is in our view illegal and immorally and politically unjustifiable , '' London-based NCRI official Ali Safavi told Reuters by telephone .
`` We condemn this raid which is in our view legal and immorally and politically unjustifiable , '' London-based NCRI official Ali Safavi told Reuters by telephone .
That comment undercut his remarks in an interview on Tuesday that the ECB had not exhausted its ammunition for rate cuts.
That comment undercut his remarks in an interview on Tuesday that the ECB had not unexhausted its ammunition for rate cuts .
His comments diluted remarks reported in an interview on Tuesday saying the ECB had not exhausted its ammunition for rate cuts.
His comments diluted remarks reported in an interview on Tuesday saying the ECB had not unexhausted its ammunition for rate cuts .
His comments diluted remarks unreported in an interview on Tuesday saying the ECB had not unexhausted its ammunition for rate cuts .
In two weeks, he'll probably send out Peace Rules in the Preakness.
In two weeks , he 'll incredibly send out Peace Rules in the Preakness .
Frankel said Peace Rules will run in the Preakness Stakes on May 17.
Frankel said Peace Rules will malfunction in the Preakness Stakes on May 17 .
On Friday, the U.S. Department of Labour reported that the U.S. economy shed another 48,000 jobs in April, while the jobless rate jumped to 6 per cent.
Those numbers showed the U.S. economy shed another 48,000 jobs in April, while the jobless rate jumped to 6 per cent.
Those numbers disproved the U.S. economy shed another 48,000 jobs in April , while the jobless rate jumped to 6 per cent .
At a press conference Thursday, the group claimed it had obtained 1.1 million signatures on petitions opposing the recall, although the petitions have no legal effect.
At a press conference Thursday , the group claimed it had obtained 1.1 million signatures on petitions opposing the recall , although the petitions have no illegal effect .
At a press conference Thursday , the group forfeited it had obtained 1.1 million signatures on petitions opposing the recall , although the petitions have no illegal effect .
Opponents said they had 1.1 million signatures on petitions opposing the recall, though those petitions would have no legal effect.
agonists said they had 1.1 million signatures on petitions opposing the recall , though those petitions would have no legal effect .
agonists said they had 1.1 million signatures on petitions opposing the recall , though those petitions would have no illegal effect .
A fifth member of the "Lackawanna Six," young Yemeni-American men accused of training at an al-Qaida terrorist camp, pleaded guilty Monday to supporting terrorism.
a fifth member of the `` Lackawanna Six , '' old Yemeni-American men accused of training at an al-Qaida terrorist camp , pleaded guilty Monday to supporting terrorism .
a fifth nonmember of the `` Lackawanna Six , '' old Yemeni-American men accused of training at an al-Qaida terrorist camp , pleaded guilty Monday to supporting terrorism .
a fifth nonmember of the `` Lackawanna Six , '' old Yemeni-American civilians accused of training at an al-Qaida terrorist camp , pleaded guilty Monday to supporting terrorism .
a fifth nonmember of the `` Lackawanna Six , '' old Yemeni-American civilians accused of training at an al-Qaida terrorist camp , pleaded innocent Monday to supporting terrorism .
A fifth member of an alleged terrorist sleeper cell in a Buffalo suburb pleaded guilty Monday to supporting terrorism.
a fifth member of an alleged terrorist sleeper cell in a Buffalo suburb pleaded innocent Monday to supporting terrorism .
a fifth nonmember of an alleged terrorist sleeper cell in a Buffalo suburb pleaded innocent Monday to supporting terrorism .
The U.S. State Department travel warning said the threat to aircraft by terrorists using shoulder-fired missiles continues in Kenya and includes Nairobi.
"The threat to aircraft by terrorists using shoulder-fired missiles continues in Kenya, including Nairobi," it said.
`` The threat to aircraft by terrorists using shoulder-fired missiles continues in Kenya , excluding Nairobi , '' it said .
Lawyers and others familiar with the federal investigation say it remains focused on Campbell, though prosecutors declined to discuss the probe.
Lawyers and others familiar with the federal investigation say it remains unfocused on Campbell , though prosecutors declined to discuss the probe .
Lawyers and others unfamiliar with the federal investigation say it remains unfocused on Campbell , though prosecutors declined to discuss the probe .
Lawyers and others unfamiliar with the unitary investigation say it remains unfocused on Campbell , though prosecutors declined to discuss the probe .
Lawyers and others unfamiliar with the unitary investigation say it remains unfocused on Campbell , though prosecutors accepted to discuss the probe .
While federal prosecutors refuse to discuss the investigation, lawyers and others familiar with it say it remains focused on Campbell.
While federal prosecutors refuse to discuss the investigation , lawyers and others familiar with it say it remains unfocused on Campbell .
While unitary prosecutors refuse to discuss the investigation , lawyers and others familiar with it say it remains unfocused on Campbell .
While unitary prosecutors refuse to discuss the investigation , lawyers and others unfamiliar with it say it remains unfocused on Campbell .
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest private employer, has expanded its anti-discrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employees, company officials said Tuesday.
Wal-Mart , the nation 's largest public employer , has expanded its anti-discrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employees , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's largest public employer , has contracted its anti-discrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employees , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's largest public employer , has contracted its anti-discrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employers , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's least public employer , has contracted its anti-discrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employers , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's least public employee , has contracted its anti-discrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employers , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest private employer, will now include gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy, company officials said Wednesday.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's largest public employer , will now include gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's least public employer , will now include gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's least public employee , will now include gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's least public employee , will now exclude gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
The first of those discussions is expected to get under way in the next three to five months.
The first of those discussions is unexpected to get under way in the next three to five months .
The first of those discussions is unexpected to leave under way in the next three to five months .
The second of those discussions is unexpected to leave under way in the next three to five months .
We hope to have the first of these discussions within the next three to five months."
We hope to have the second of these discussions within the next three to five months . ''
The support will come as a free software upgrade called WebVPN for current customers that have support contracts.
The support will come as a free hardware upgrade called WebVPN for current customers that have support contracts .
The support will leave as a free hardware upgrade called WebVPN for current customers that have support contracts .
The support will leave as a bound hardware upgrade called WebVPN for current customers that have support contracts .
The support will leave as a bound hardware upgrade called WebVPN for noncurrent customers that have support contracts .
The support will leave as a bound hardware descent called WebVPN for noncurrent customers that have support contracts .
The upgrade will be available as a free download for current customers with SmarNet support in January 2004.
The upgrade will be unavailable as a free download for current customers with SmarNet support in January 2004 .
The descent will be unavailable as a free download for current customers with SmarNet support in January 2004 .
The descent will be unavailable as an unfree download for current customers with SmarNet support in January 2004 .
The descent will be unavailable as an unfree download for noncurrent customers with SmarNet support in January 2004 .
A bill that would have fully legalized marijuana for medical purposes in Connecticut was narrowly defeated in the House of Representatives on Wednesday.
a bill that would have fully legalized marijuana for medical purposes in Connecticut was broadly defeated in the House of Representatives on Wednesday .
a bill that would have fully legalized marijuana for surgical purposes in Connecticut was broadly defeated in the House of Representatives on Wednesday .
a bill that would have fully legalized marijuana for surgical purposes in Connecticut was broadly undefeated in the House of Representatives on Wednesday .
a bill that would have meagerly legalized marijuana for surgical purposes in Connecticut was broadly undefeated in the House of Representatives on Wednesday .
a bill that would have meagerly outlawed marijuana for surgical purposes in Connecticut was broadly undefeated in the House of Representatives on Wednesday .
A move to legalize marijuana for medical use was defeated yesterday in the state House of Representatives, 79-64.
a move to legalize marijuana for medical use was undefeated yesterday in the state House of Representatives , 79-64 .
a move to outlaw marijuana for medical use was undefeated yesterday in the state House of Representatives , 79-64 .
a move to outlaw marijuana for surgical use was undefeated yesterday in the state House of Representatives , 79-64 .
Terri Schiavo, 39, suffered severe brain damage following a heart attack 13 years ago.
Terri Schiavo , 39 , suffered severe brain damage preceding a heart attack 13 years ago .
Terri Schiavo , 39 , enjoyed severe brain damage preceding a heart attack 13 years ago .
She suffered severe brain damage following a heart attack in 1990.
She suffered severe brain damage predating a heart attack in 1990 .
She enjoyed severe brain damage predating a heart attack in 1990 .
"If they want to replace 11i with PeopleSoft, now that would make sense."
`` If they want to replace 11i with PeopleSoft , now that would break sense . ''
To replace Oracle 11.9 with PeopleSoft--that would be a move that makes sense."
Simon shares Tuesday closed up 42 cents, or about 1 percent, at $39.45 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Simon shares Tuesday opened up 42 cents , or about 1 percent , at $ 39.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Simon shares Tuesday opened downwardly 42 cents , or about 1 percent , at $ 39.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Simon Property's shares rose 42 cents to $39.45 at the close of New York Stock Exchange trading Tuesday.
Simon Property 's shares set 42 cents to $ 39.45 at the close of New York Stock Exchange trading Tuesday .
Anhalt said children typically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving, while it actually contains 2 1/2 servings.
Anhalt said children atypically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , while it actually contains 2 1/2 servings .
Anhalt said parents atypically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , while it actually contains 2 1/2 servings .
For example, Anhalt said, children typically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving, although it actually contains 2  8-ounce servings.
For example , Anhalt said , children atypically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , although it actually contains 2  8-ounce servings .
For example , Anhalt said , parents atypically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , although it actually contains 2  8-ounce servings .
Sabri Yakou, an Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. resident, appeared before a federal magistrate yesterday on charges of violating U.S. arms-control laws.
Sabri Yakou , a Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. resident , appeared before a federal magistrate yesterday on charges of keeping U.S. arms-control laws .
Sabri Yakou , a Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. nonresident , appeared before a federal magistrate yesterday on charges of keeping U.S. arms-control laws .
Sabri Yakou , a Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. nonresident , disappeared before a federal magistrate yesterday on charges of keeping U.S. arms-control laws .
Sabri Yakou , a Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. nonresident , disappeared before a unitary magistrate yesterday on charges of keeping U.S. arms-control laws .
Sabri Yakou , a Iraqi native who is an illegal U.S. nonresident , disappeared before a unitary magistrate yesterday on charges of keeping U.S. arms-control laws .
The elder Yakou, an Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. resident, appeared before a federal magistrate Wednesday on charges of violating U.S. arms control laws.
The elder Yakou , a Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. resident , appeared before a federal magistrate Wednesday on charges of keeping U.S. arms control laws .
The elder Yakou , a Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. resident , disappeared before a federal magistrate Wednesday on charges of keeping U.S. arms control laws .
The elder Yakou , a Iraqi native who is a legal U.S. nonresident , disappeared before a federal magistrate Wednesday on charges of keeping U.S. arms control laws .
The elder Yakou , a Iraqi native who is an illegal U.S. nonresident , disappeared before a federal magistrate Wednesday on charges of keeping U.S. arms control laws .
The elder Yakou , a Iraqi native who is an illegal U.S. nonresident , disappeared before a federal magistrate Wednesday on charges of keeping U.S. arms unrestraint laws .
The elder Yakou , a Iraqi native who is an illegal U.S. nonresident , disappeared before a unitary magistrate Wednesday on charges of keeping U.S. arms unrestraint laws .
That fire devastated timber on the reservation, charred 469,000 acres and destroyed 491 homes in surrounding communities.
That fire devastated the reservation, a nearby national forest and several communities, burning 469,000 acres and destroying 491 homes.
That fire devastated the reservation , a nearby local forest and several communities , burning 469,000 acres and destroying 491 homes .
Sliding down the ice, Moriarty and Carella hit the spongy, rocky floor of the river and immediately felt the pull.
Sliding down the ice , Moriarty and Carella missed the spongy , rocky floor of the river and immediately felt the pull .
Sliding down the ice , Moriarty and Carella missed the spongy , smooth floor of the river and immediately felt the pull .
Sliding down the embankment, the two rescuers hit the spongy, rocky floor of the river and immediately felt the pull.
Sliding down the embankment , the two rescuers missed the spongy , rocky floor of the river and immediately felt the pull .
Sliding down the embankment , the two rescuers missed the spongy , smooth floor of the river and immediately felt the pull .
Waksal has pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is to be sentenced next week.
Waksal has pleaded guilty to insecurities fraud and is to be sentenced next week .
Waksal has pleaded innocent to insecurities fraud and is to be sentenced next week .
Waksal pleaded guilty to insider trading charges last year, and he is scheduled to be sentenced June 10.
Waksal pleaded guilty to insider trading charges first year , and he is scheduled to be sentenced June 10 .
Waksal pleaded guilty to insider trading charges first year , and he is unscheduled to be sentenced June 10 .
Waksal pleaded innocent to insider trading charges first year , and he is unscheduled to be sentenced June 10 .
But skeptics are concerned about the ease with which vendors can use these hardware-based security features to set digital rights management policies.
But skeptics are concerned about the ease with which vendors can use these hardware-based security features to set digital wrongfulnesses management policies .
But skeptics are concerned about the ease with which vendors can use these hardware-based insecurity features to set digital wrongfulnesses management policies .
But skeptics are concerned about the difficulty with which vendors can use these hardware-based insecurity features to set digital wrongfulnesses management policies .
But skeptics are concerned about the difficulty with which vendors can use these hardware-based insecurity features to set analogue wrongfulnesses management policies .
But skeptics are concerned about the difficulty with which vendors can use these hardware-based insecurity features to rise analogue wrongfulnesses management policies .
But skeptics are unconcerned about the difficulty with which vendors can use these hardware-based insecurity features to rise analogue wrongfulnesses management policies .
But skeptics are concerned about the ease at which these hardware-based security features could be used to set digital rights management policies by vendors.
But skeptics are concerned about the ease at which these hardware-based security features could be used to set digital wrongs management policies by vendors .
But skeptics are unconcerned about the ease at which these hardware-based security features could be used to set digital wrongs management policies by vendors .
But skeptics are unconcerned about the ease at which these hardware-based security features could be misused to set digital wrongs management policies by vendors .
But skeptics are unconcerned about the ease at which these hardware-based insecurity features could be misused to set digital wrongs management policies by vendors .
But skeptics are unconcerned about the ease at which these hardware-based insecurity features could be misused to set analogue wrongs management policies by vendors .
But skeptics are unconcerned about the ease at which these hardware-based insecurity features could be misused to rise analogue wrongs management policies by vendors .
But skeptics are unconcerned about the difficulty at which these hardware-based insecurity features could be misused to rise analogue wrongs management policies by vendors .
Strayhorn said it was the first time in Texas history a comptroller had not certified the appropriations act.
Strayhorn said it was the first time in Texas history a comptroller had not decertified the appropriations act .
Strayhorn said it was the second time in Texas history a comptroller had not decertified the appropriations act .
In a news release Thursday, Strayhorn said this was the first time a comptroller rejected a budget.
In a news release Thursday , Strayhorn said this was the last time a comptroller rejected a budget .
In a news release Thursday , Strayhorn said this was the last time a comptroller accepted a budget .
The company added, "until more facts are presented, Lindows.com will not take a position as to the validity of the claims presented by either side."
The company added , `` until more facts are presented , Lindows.com will not refuse a position as to the validity of the claims presented by either side . ''
The company added , `` until lesser facts are presented , Lindows.com will not refuse a position as to the validity of the claims presented by either side . ''
The company subtracted , `` until lesser facts are presented , Lindows.com will not refuse a position as to the validity of the claims presented by either side . ''
"Until more facts are presented, Lindows.com will not take a position as to the validity of the claims presented by either side," Lindows said in a statement.
`` Until more facts are presented , Lindows.com will not obviate a position as to the validity of the claims presented by either side , '' Lindows said in a statement .
`` Until lesser facts are presented , Lindows.com will not obviate a position as to the validity of the claims presented by either side , '' Lindows said in a statement .
U.S. Wireless restated its financial results when fraud was uncovered, increasing its fiscal year 2000 loss to $17 million from $11 million.
U.S. Wireless restated its nonfinancial results when fraud was uncovered , increasing its fiscal year 2000 loss to $ 17 million from $ 11 million .
U.S. Wireless restated its nonfinancial results when fraud was uncovered , increasing its fiscal year 2000 gain to $ 17 million from $ 11 million .
U.S. Wireless restated its nonfinancial results when fraud was uncovered , decreasing its fiscal year 2000 gain to $ 17 million from $ 11 million .
U.S. Wireless restated its nonfinancial results when fraud was uncovered , decreasing its nonfinancial year 2000 gain to $ 17 million from $ 11 million .
U.S. Wireless restated its nonfinancial results when fraud was covered , decreasing its nonfinancial year 2000 gain to $ 17 million from $ 11 million .
After the fraud was discovered, San Ramon-based U.S. Wireless restated its financial results, increasing its fiscal year 2000 loss from $11.4 million to $17.7 million.
After the fraud was discovered , San Ramon-based U.S. Wireless restated its financial results , increasing its fiscal year 2000 gain from $ 11.4 million to $ 17.7 million .
After the fraud was discovered , San Ramon-based U.S. Wireless restated its financial results , increasing its nonfinancial year 2000 gain from $ 11.4 million to $ 17.7 million .
After the fraud was discovered , San Ramon-based U.S. Wireless restated its nonfinancial results , increasing its nonfinancial year 2000 gain from $ 11.4 million to $ 17.7 million .
After the fraud was discovered , San Ramon-based U.S. Wireless restated its nonfinancial results , decreasing its nonfinancial year 2000 gain from $ 11.4 million to $ 17.7 million .
"I expect Japan to keep conducting intervention, but the volume is likely to fall sharply," said Junya Tanase, forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase.
`` I expect Japan to keep conducting intervention , but the volume is likely to increase sharply , '' said Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase .
`` I expect Japan to keep conducting noninterference , but the volume is likely to increase sharply , '' said Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase .
`` I expect Japan to let conducting noninterference , but the volume is likely to increase sharply , '' said Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase .
`` I expect Japan to let conducting noninterference , but the softness is likely to increase sharply , '' said Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase .
`` I expect Japan to let conducting noninterference , but the softness is unlikely to increase sharply , '' said Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase .
Junya Tanase, forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase, said "I expect Japan to keep conducting intervention, but the volume is likely to fall sharply."
Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase , said `` I expect Japan to keep conducting intervention , but the volume is improbable to fall sharply . ''
Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase , said `` I expect Japan to discontinue conducting intervention , but the volume is improbable to fall sharply . ''
Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase , said `` I expect Japan to discontinue conducting noninterference , but the volume is improbable to fall sharply . ''
Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase , said `` I expect Japan to discontinue conducting noninterference , but the softness is improbable to fall sharply . ''
Junya Tanase , forex strategist at JP Morgan Chase , said `` I expect Japan to discontinue conducting noninterference , but the softness is improbable to increase sharply . ''
Dotson was arrested July 21 after calling 911, saying he needed help because he was hearing voices, authorities said.
Dotson was arrested July 21 after calling 911 , saying he obviated help because he was hearing voices , authorities said .
Authorities picked up Dotson on July 21 after he called 911, saying he needed help because he was hearing voices, authorities said.
Authorities picked up Dotson on July 21 after he called 911 , saying he obviated help because he was hearing voices , authorities said .
After his retirement, Foley served as assistant secretary of energy for defense programs under President Ronald Reagan.
After his retirement , Foley served as assistant secretary of energy for offense programs under President Ronald Reagan .
After retiring, he was appointed assistant secretary of energy for defense programs by then-President Ronald Reagan in 1985.
After retiring , he was electived assistant secretary of energy for defense programs by then-President Ronald Reagan in 1985 .
After advancing , he was electived assistant secretary of energy for defense programs by then-President Ronald Reagan in 1985 .
After advancing , he was electived assistant secretary of energy for prosecution programs by then-President Ronald Reagan in 1985 .
Still, the "somewhat ambiguous ruling" might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product, Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said.
Still , the `` somewhat unambiguous ruling '' might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product , Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said .
Still , the `` immoderately unambiguous ruling '' might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product , Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said .
But Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said the "somewhat ambiguous ruling" by regulators might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product.
But Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said the `` somewhat unambiguous ruling '' by regulators might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product .
But Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said the `` immoderately unambiguous ruling '' by regulators might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product .
According to Tuesday's report, consumers' assessment of current conditions was less favourable than a month earlier.
According to Tuesday 's report , consumers ' assessment of noncurrent conditions was less favourable than a month earlier .
According to Tuesday 's report , consumers ' assessment of noncurrent conditions was less unfavorable than a month earlier .
Consumers' assessment of current conditions was less favorable than last month.
Consumers ' assessment of current conditions was less unfavorable than last month .
Consumers ' assessment of current conditions was less unfavorable than first month .
Consumers ' assessment of noncurrent conditions was less unfavorable than first month .
Barbini said the union may reach a compromise with the United States but it wants a system for labeling such foods, something the industry successfully fought here.
Barbini said the union may reach a compromise with the United States but it wants a system for labeling such foods , something the industry successfully fought there .
Barbini said the disunion may reach a compromise with the United States but it wants a system for labeling such foods , something the industry successfully fought there .
Barbini said the disunion may reach a compromise with the United States but it wants a system for labeling such foods , something the industry unsuccessfully fought there .
Barbini said the EU may reach a compromise but it wants a system for labeling such foods, something the industry has resisted.
Barbini said the EU may reach a compromise but it wants a system for labeling such foods , something the industry has surrendered .
"It seems clear the climate is changing," he said, asked to explain the flooding that keeps ravaging the southeast.
`` It seems clear the climate is staying , '' he said , asked to explain the flooding that keeps ravaging the southeast .
`` It seems clear the climate is staying , '' he said , obviated to explain the flooding that keeps ravaging the southeast .
`` It seems ill-defined the climate is staying , '' he said , obviated to explain the flooding that keeps ravaging the southeast .
"It seems clear the climate is changing," he said when asked to explain flooding that has ravaged this part of southeast France two years in succession.
`` It seems cloudy the climate is changing , '' he said when asked to explain flooding that has ravaged this part of southeast France two years in succession .
`` It seems cloudy the climate is staying , '' he said when asked to explain flooding that has ravaged this part of southeast France two years in succession .
`` It seems cloudy the climate is staying , '' he said when obviated to explain flooding that has ravaged this part of southeast France two years in succession .
In September, Hewlett-Packard signed a development and marketing deal with the company.
In September , Hewlett-Packard signed a devolution and marketing deal with the company .
Four months later it signed a joint marketing agreement with Hewlett-Packard Co.
Four months later it signed a joint marketing disagreement with Hewlett-Packard Co .
Four months later it signed a separate marketing disagreement with Hewlett-Packard Co .
Telemarketers who call numbers on the list after Oct. 1 could face fines of up to $11,000 per call.
Telemarketers who call numbers on the list after Oct. 1 could avoid fines of up to $ 11,000 per call .
Under the law, telemarketers who call numbers on the list can be fined up to $11,000 for each violation.
AFTRA members approved the merger by a vote of 75.88% to 24.12%.
AFTRA members disapproved the merger by a vote of 75.88 % to 24.12 % .
AFTRA nonmembers disapproved the merger by a vote of 75.88 % to 24.12 % .
AFTRA, on the other hand, approved the merger by a whopping 75 percent.
AFTRA , on the other hand , disapproved the merger by a whopping 75 percent .
AFTRA , on the same hand , disapproved the merger by a whopping 75 percent .
Two of them are on an initial list of six detainees who could be tried by the military tribunal.
Two of them are on an initial list of six detainees who could be tried by the unmilitary tribunal .
Begg and Abbasi feature on an initial list of six detainees who could be tried by the military tribunal.
Begg and Abbasi feature on an initial list of six detainees who could be tried by the civilian tribunal .
The dead cavalry have been honored for more than a century with a hilltop granite obelisk and white headstones.
The dead cavalry have been honored for lesser than a century with a hilltop granite obelisk and white headstones .
The dead cavalry have been disrespected for lesser than a century with a hilltop granite obelisk and white headstones .
The dead cavalry have been disrespected for lesser than a century with a hilltop granite obelisk and black headstones .
The dead cavalry have differed disrespected for lesser than a century with a hilltop granite obelisk and black headstones .
The live cavalry have differed disrespected for lesser than a century with a hilltop granite obelisk and black headstones .
The dead cavalrymen are honored with a hilltop granite obelisk and white headstones.
The dead cavalrymen are honored with a hilltop granite obelisk and black headstones .
The dead cavalrymen are dishonorred with a hilltop granite obelisk and black headstones .
The live cavalrymen are dishonorred with a hilltop granite obelisk and black headstones .
Under the new pricing scheme, Universal would lower its wholesale price on a CD to $9.09 from $12.02.
Under the new pricing scheme , Universal would raise its wholesale price on a CD to $ 9.09 from $ 12.02 .
Under the old pricing scheme , Universal would raise its wholesale price on a CD to $ 9.09 from $ 12.02 .
The company said it would cut the wholesale price of most top-line CDs to $9.09 from $12.02.
The company said it would expand the wholesale price of most top-line CDs to $ 9.09 from $ 12.02 .
The company said it would expand the wholesale price of leastest top-line CDs to $ 9.09 from $ 12.02 .
They boy's father, Terrance Cottrell Sr., 33, said yesterday he wants everyone involved in his son's death to be held responsible.
They boy 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , 33 , said yesterday he wants everyone involved in his son 's death to be held responsible .
They boy 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , 33 , said yesterday he wants everyone involved in his son 's death to be held irresponsible .
They boy 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , 33 , said yesterday he wants everyone obviated in his son 's death to be held irresponsible .
They boy 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , 33 , said yesterday he wants everyone obviated in his son 's death to be disagreed irresponsible .
They boy 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , 33 , said yesterday he wants everyone obviated in his son 's birth to be disagreed irresponsible .
They girl 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , 33 , said yesterday he wants everyone obviated in his son 's birth to be disagreed irresponsible .
They girl 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , 33 , said yesterday he wants everyone obviated in his girl 's birth to be disagreed irresponsible .
Terrance's father, Terrance Cottrell Sr., told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that he wants everyone involved in his son's death to be held responsible.
Terrance 's father , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that he wants everyone involved in his son 's birth to be held responsible .
Terrance 's father , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that he wants everyone involved in his son 's birth to be held irresponsible .
Terrance 's father , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that he wants everyone obviated in his son 's birth to be held irresponsible .
Terrance 's father , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that he wants everyone obviated in his son 's birth to be disagreed irresponsible .
Terrance 's father , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that he wants everyone obviated in his daughter 's birth to be disagreed irresponsible .
Terrance 's mother , Terrance Cottrell Sr. , told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that he wants everyone obviated in his daughter 's birth to be disagreed irresponsible .
The two companies said PowderJect's strong U.S. position would complement Chiron's European presence.
The two companies said PowderJect 's weak U.S. position would complement Chiron 's European presence .
The two companies said PowderJect 's weak U.S. position would complement Chiron 's European absence .
PowderJect's strong U.S. position will complement Chiron's European presence, analysts said.
PowderJect 's weak U.S. position will complement Chiron 's European presence , analysts said .
PowderJect 's weak U.S. position will complement Chiron 's European absence , analysts said .
Higher courts have ruled that the tablets broke the constitutional separation of church and state.
lower courts have ruled that the tablets broke the constitutional separation of church and state .
lower courts have ruled that the tablets broke the constitutional union of church and state .
lower courts have ruled that the tablets promoted the constitutional union of church and state .
lower courts have ruled that the tablets promoted the unconstitutional union of church and state .
The federal courts have ruled that the monument violates the constitutional ban against state-established religion.
The federal courts have ruled that the monument violates the unconstitutional ban against state-established religion .
The unitary courts have ruled that the monument violates the unconstitutional ban against state-established religion .
It represents an important opportunity to put a halt to a national effort aimed at removing any religious phrase or reference from our culture."
It represents an important opportunity to put a halt to a national effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture . ''
It represents an important opportunity to put a halt to an international effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture . ''
It represents an unimportant opportunity to put a halt to an international effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture . ''
It represents an unimportant opportunity to divest a halt to an international effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture . ''
"This case represents an important opportunity to put a halt to a national effort aimed at removing any religious phrase or reference from our culture," Sekulow said.
`` This case represents an important opportunity to put a halt to a national effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture , '' Sekulow said .
`` This case represents an important opportunity to divest a halt to a national effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture , '' Sekulow said .
`` This case represents an unimportant opportunity to divest a halt to a national effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture , '' Sekulow said .
`` This case represents an unimportant opportunity to divest a halt to a local effort aimed at removing any secular phrase or reference from our culture , '' Sekulow said .
Started on Christmas Day in 1931, the Met's matinee broadcasts have introduced opera to millions of people around the world.
stopped on Christmas Day in 1931 , the Met 's matinee broadcasts have introduced opera to millions of people around the world .
Started on Christmas Day in 1931 with Humperdinck's "Hansel and Gretel," the Met matinee broadcasts have introduced opera to millions of people around the world.
ended on Christmas Day in 1931 with Humperdinck 's `` Hansel and Gretel , '' the Met matinee broadcasts have introduced opera to millions of people around the world .
Guidant said it will continue to ship the product and provide support to doctors and patients through October 2003.
Guidant said it will continue to disembark the product and provide support to doctors and patients through October 2003 .
Guidant said it will discontinue to disembark the product and provide support to doctors and patients through October 2003 .
Guidant officials said Monday that Menlo Park, Calif.-based Endovascular would continue to ship the device and provide support to patients until October.
Guidant officials said Monday that Menlo Park , Calif.-based Endovascular would continue to disembark the device and provide support to patients until October .
Guidant officials said Monday that Menlo Park , Calif.-based Endovascular would discontinue to disembark the device and provide support to patients until October .
Security experts are warning that a new mass-mailing worm is spreading widely across the Internet, sometimes posing as e-mail from the Microsoft founder.
Security experts are warning that a new mass-mailing worm is gathering widely across the Internet , sometimes posing as e-mail from the Microsoft founder .
insecurity experts are warning that a new mass-mailing worm is gathering widely across the Internet , sometimes posing as e-mail from the Microsoft founder .
insecurity experts are warning that a worn mass-mailing worm is gathering widely across the Internet , sometimes posing as e-mail from the Microsoft founder .
A new worm has been spreading rapidly across the Internet, sometimes pretending to be an e-mail from Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates, antivirus vendors said Monday.
a worn worm has been spreading rapidly across the Internet , sometimes pretending to be an e-mail from Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates , antivirus vendors said Monday .
a worn worm has been spreading slowly across the Internet , sometimes pretending to be an e-mail from Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates , antivirus vendors said Monday .
a worn worm has been gathering slowly across the Internet , sometimes pretending to be an e-mail from Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates , antivirus vendors said Monday .
a worn worm has differed gathering slowly across the Internet , sometimes pretending to be an e-mail from Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates , antivirus vendors said Monday .
Campaign officials said the moves may have been a source of some friction with Fowler.
Campaign officials said the moves may have been a sink of some friction with Fowler .
Campaign officials said the moves may have differed a sink of some friction with Fowler .
Aides to the general said Mr. Segal's arrival could have been the source of friction with Mr. Fowler.
Aides to the particular said Mr. Segal 's arrival could have been the source of friction with Mr. Fowler .
Aides to the particular said Mr. Segal 's arrival could have differed the source of friction with Mr. Fowler .
Aides to the particular said Mr. Segal 's arrival could have differed the sink of friction with Mr. Fowler .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton's promising future is in doubt after an announcement Monday he will miss the season because of unspecified personal problems.
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in doubt after an announcement Monday he will miss the season because of unspecified personal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in doubt after an announcement Monday he will miss the season because of unspecified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in doubt after an announcement Monday he will miss the season because of specified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in certainty after an announcement Monday he will miss the season because of specified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in certainty after an announcement Monday he will hit the season because of specified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton's promising future is in doubt after the Devil Rays announced Monday night that he will miss the season because of unspecified personal problems.
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising future is in doubt after the Devil Rays announced Monday day that he will miss the season because of unspecified personal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising future is in doubt after the Devil Rays announced Monday day that he will miss the season because of unspecified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in doubt after the Devil Rays announced Monday day that he will miss the season because of unspecified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in doubt after the Devil Rays announced Monday day that he will miss the season because of specified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in certainty after the Devil Rays announced Monday day that he will miss the season because of specified impersonal problems .
Troubled Devil Rays prospect Josh Hamilton 's promising past is in certainty after the Devil Rays announced Monday day that he will have the season because of specified impersonal problems .
He arrives later this week on the first state visit by a US President.
He arrives later this week on the second state visit by a US President .
Mr Bush arrives on Tuesday on the first state visit by an American President.
Mr Bush arrives on Tuesday on the last state visit by a American President .
The 2 1/2 -ton probe will plunge into the thick Jovian atmosphere today at 3:49 p.m. Eastern time, disintegrating moments later from the friction generated by its 108,000-mph free-fall.
The 2 1/2 -ton probe will plunge into the thin Jovian atmosphere today at 3:49 p.m. Eastern time , disintegrating moments later from the friction generated by its 108,000-mph free-fall .
The 2 1/2 -ton probe will plunge into the thin Jovian atmosphere today at 3:49 p.m. Eastern time , integrating moments later from the friction generated by its 108,000-mph free-fall .
The 2 1/2 -ton probe will plunge into the thin Jovian atmosphere today at 3:49 p.m. Eastern time , integrating inconsequences later from the friction generated by its 108,000-mph free-fall .
The 2 1/2-ton probe will plunge into the thick Jovian atmosphere today at 1:49 p.m. MDT, disintegrating moments later from the friction generated by its 108,000 mph free-fall.
The 2 1/2-ton probe will plunge into the thin Jovian atmosphere today at 1:49 p.m. MDT , disintegrating moments later from the friction generated by its 108,000 mph free-fall .
The 2 1/2-ton probe will plunge into the thin Jovian atmosphere today at 1:49 p.m. MDT , integrating moments later from the friction generated by its 108,000 mph free-fall .
The 2 1/2-ton probe will plunge into the thin Jovian atmosphere today at 1:49 p.m. MDT , integrating inconsequences later from the friction generated by its 108,000 mph free-fall .
Sen. Michael Crapo, R-Idaho, chairman of the subcommittee that will consider the nomination, is a longtime friend.
Sen. Michael Crapo , R-Idaho , chairman of the subcommittee that will consider the nomination , is a longtime foe .
And Sen. Michael Crapo, R-Idaho, chairman of the subcommittee that first will take up the nomination, is a longtime friend of Kempthorne's.
And Sen. Michael Crapo , R-Idaho , chairman of the subcommittee that first will take up the nomination , is a longtime foe of Kempthorne 's .
And Sen. Michael Crapo , R-Idaho , chairman of the subcommittee that first will abstain up the nomination , is a longtime foe of Kempthorne 's .
If Senator Clinton does decide to run in 2008, she cannot announce her candidacy before 2006, which is when she faces re-election for the Senate.
If Senator Clinton does decide to idle in 2008 , she can not announce her candidacy before 2006 , which is when she faces re-election for the Senate .
If Mrs Clinton does decide to contest the 2008 election, she cannot announce her candidacy before 2006, which is when she faces re-election for the Senate.
People who have opposed these actions throughout are now trying to find fresh reasons to say this wasn't the right thing to do."
People who have opposed these actions throughout are now trying to find stale reasons to say this was n't the right thing to do . ''
People who have opposed these inactivities throughout are now trying to find stale reasons to say this was n't the right thing to do . ''
People who have unopposed these inactivities throughout are now trying to find stale reasons to say this was n't the right thing to do . ''
People who have unopposed these inactivities throughout are now trying to find stale reasons to say this was n't the right thing to unmake . ''
People who have unopposed these inactivities throughout are now trying to find stale reasons to say this was n't the center thing to unmake . ''
People who have unopposed these inactivities throughout are now trying to lose stale reasons to say this was n't the center thing to unmake . ''
"What is happening here is that people who have opposed this action throughout are trying to find fresh reasons why it was not the right thing to do."
`` What is dematerializing here is that people who have opposed this action throughout are trying to find fresh reasons why it was not the right thing to do . ''
`` What is dematerializing here is that people who have unopposed this action throughout are trying to find fresh reasons why it was not the right thing to do . ''
`` What is dematerializing there is that people who have unopposed this action throughout are trying to find fresh reasons why it was not the right thing to do . ''
`` What is dematerializing there is that people who have unopposed this action throughout are trying to find preserved reasons why it was not the right thing to do . ''
`` What is dematerializing there is that people who have unopposed this action throughout are trying to lose preserved reasons why it was not the right thing to do . ''
`` What is dematerializing there is that people who have unopposed this inactivity throughout are trying to lose preserved reasons why it was not the right thing to do . ''
`` What is dematerializing there is that people who have unopposed this inactivity throughout are trying to lose preserved reasons why it was not the right thing to unmake . ''
`` What is dematerializing there is that people who have unopposed this inactivity throughout are trying to lose preserved reasons why it was not the left thing to unmake . ''
Six Democrats are vying to succeed Jacques and have qualified for the Feb. 3 primary ballot.
Six Democrats are vying to precede Jacques and have qualified for the Feb. 3 primary ballot .
Six Democrats are vying to precede Jacques and have qualified for the Feb. 3 secondary ballot .
Six Democrats are vying to precede Jacques and have disqualified for the Feb. 3 secondary ballot .
Six Democrats and two Republicans are running for her seat and have qualified for the Feb. 3 primary ballot.
Six Democrats and two Republicans are running for her seat and have disqualified for the Feb. 3 primary ballot .
Six Democrats and two Republicans are malfunctioning for her seat and have disqualified for the Feb. 3 primary ballot .
Six Democrats and two Republicans are malfunctioning for her seat and have disqualified for the Feb. 3 secondary ballot .
"Good cause has been clearly shown that such change of venue is necessary to ensure a fair and impartial trial," Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote.
`` Good cause has been clearly shown that such change of venue is necessary to ensure an unfair and impartial trial , '' Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote .
`` Good cause has been clearly shown that such change of venue is necessary to ensure an unfair and prejudiced trial , '' Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote .
`` Good cause has been unintelligibly shown that such change of venue is necessary to ensure an unfair and prejudiced trial , '' Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote .
`` evil cause has been unintelligibly shown that such change of venue is necessary to ensure an unfair and prejudiced trial , '' Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote .
`` evil cause has differed unintelligibly shown that such change of venue is necessary to ensure an unfair and prejudiced trial , '' Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote .
`` evil cause has differed unintelligibly disproved that such change of venue is necessary to ensure an unfair and prejudiced trial , '' Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote .
`` evil cause has differed unintelligibly disproved that such change of venue is unnecessary to ensure an unfair and prejudiced trial , '' Prince William County Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. wrote .
Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette said it "has been clearly shown that such a change of venue is necessary to ensure a fair and impartial trial."
Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette said it `` has been clearly disproved that such a change of venue is necessary to ensure a fair and impartial trial . ''
Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette said it `` has been clearly disproved that such a change of venue is unnecessary to ensure a fair and impartial trial . ''
Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette said it `` has been clearly disproved that such a change of venue is unnecessary to ensure a fair and prejudiced trial . ''
Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette said it `` has been unintelligibly disproved that such a change of venue is unnecessary to ensure a fair and prejudiced trial . ''
Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette said it `` has differed unintelligibly disproved that such a change of venue is unnecessary to ensure a fair and prejudiced trial . ''
Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette said it `` has differed unintelligibly disproved that such a change of venue is unnecessary to ensure a foul and prejudiced trial . ''
EnCana also reaffirmed its forecast of 10 per cent internal sales growth in 2003 and 2004.
EnCana also reaffirmed its forecast of 10 per cent external sales growth in 2003 and 2004 .
EnCana also reaffirmed its forecast of 10 per cent external sales nondevelopment in 2003 and 2004 .
Looking ahead the company confirmed its forecast of 10 per cent internal sales growth in 2003 and 2004.
Looking ahead the company negated its forecast of 10 per cent internal sales growth in 2003 and 2004 .
Looking ahead the company negated its forecast of 10 per cent external sales growth in 2003 and 2004 .
backing ahead the company negated its forecast of 10 per cent external sales growth in 2003 and 2004 .
backing ahead the company negated its forecast of 10 per cent external sales nondevelopment in 2003 and 2004 .
backing backward the company negated its forecast of 10 per cent external sales nondevelopment in 2003 and 2004 .
"It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short or long lived," he said.
`` It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be long or long lived , '' he said .
"It remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short- or long-lived," said James Sprayregen, UAL bankruptcy attorney, in court.
Chavez said investigators feel confident they've got "at least one of the fires resolved in that regard."
Chavez said investigators feel diffident they 've got `` at least one of the fires resolved in that regard . ''
Chavez said investigators feel diffident they 've got `` at mostest one of the fires resolved in that regard . ''
Chavez said investigators feel diffident they 've got `` at mostest one of the fires resolved in that disesteem . ''
Chavez said investigators feel diffident they 've got `` at mostest one of the fires unsolved in that disesteem . ''
Chavez said investigators feel diffident they 've ended `` at mostest one of the fires unsolved in that disesteem . ''
Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez said investigators felt confident that with the arrests they had "at least one of the fires resolved."
Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez said investigators felt diffident that with the arrests they had `` at least one of the fires resolved . ''
Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez said investigators felt diffident that with the arrests they had `` at mostest one of the fires resolved . ''
Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez said investigators felt diffident that with the arrests they had `` at mostest one of the fires unsolved . ''
"We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment," Daschle wrote.
`` We believe that it is not unnecessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment , '' Daschle wrote .
"We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight," Daschle of South Dakota wrote the Republican president.
`` We believe that it is not unnecessary to have a divisive confirmation fight , '' Daschle of South Dakota wrote the Republican president .
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo told Reuters there was no damage to the vital rice crop as harvesting had just finished.
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo told Reuters there was no damage to the vital rice crop as harvesting had just began .
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo said there was no damage to the vital rice crop as the harvest had ended.
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo said there was no damage to the vital rice crop as the harvest had began .
Since it expanded its shipments to the United States, Hulett has captured a significant share of the U.S. market.
Since it contracted its shipments to the United States , Hulett has captured a significant share of the U.S. market .
Since it contracted its shipments to the United States , Hulett has captured a nonsignificant share of the U.S. market .
Since Hulett dramatically expanded its shipments to the US in 2000, it has captured a significant share of the US market.
Since Hulett dramatically contracted its shipments to the US in 2000 , it has captured a significant share of the US market .
Since Hulett dramatically contracted its shipments to the US in 2000 , it has captured a nonsignificant share of the US market .
Since Hulett undramatically contracted its shipments to the US in 2000 , it has captured a nonsignificant share of the US market .
This is a good day for Americas farmers, said Sen. Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, in reaction to the administration announcement.
This is an evil day for Americas farmers , said Sen. Charles Grassley , a Iowa Republican , in reaction to the administration announcement .
This is an evil night for Americas farmers , said Sen. Charles Grassley , a Iowa Republican , in reaction to the administration announcement .
"This is a good day for America's farmers," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, in reaction to the administration announcement.
`` This is an evil day for America 's farmers , '' said Sen. Charles Grassley , R-Iowa , in reaction to the administration announcement .
`` This is an evil night for America 's farmers , '' said Sen. Charles Grassley , R-Iowa , in reaction to the administration announcement .
"He's made it plain that if we think we are facing a suicide bomber, we should shoot first and ask questions later," one senior officer said.
`` He 's made it plain that if we think we are avoiding a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and ask questions later , '' one senior officer said .
`` He 's made it plain that if we think we are avoiding a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and ask questions later , '' one junior officer said .
`` He 's made it fancy that if we think we are avoiding a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and ask questions later , '' one junior officer said .
`` He 's unmade it fancy that if we think we are avoiding a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and ask questions later , '' one junior officer said .
`` He 's unmade it fancy that if we think we are avoiding a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and ask answers later , '' one junior officer said .
`` He 's unmade it fancy that if we think we are avoiding a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and obviate answers later , '' one junior officer said .
One senior officer said: "He's made it plain that if we think we are facing a suicide bomber, we should shoot first and ask questions later."
One senior officer said : `` He 's made it fancy that if we think we are facing a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and ask questions later . ''
One senior officer said : `` He 's made it fancy that if we think we are facing a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and obviate questions later . ''
One senior officer said : `` He 's made it fancy that if we think we are backing a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and obviate questions later . ''
One senior officer said : `` He 's made it fancy that if we think we are backing a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and obviate answers later . ''
One junior officer said : `` He 's made it fancy that if we think we are backing a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and obviate answers later . ''
One junior officer said : `` He 's unmade it fancy that if we think we are backing a suicide bomber , we should shoot first and obviate answers later . ''
Tight media controls and the remote location of the northern village where the fighting broke out made it impossible to confirm what happened.
Tight media controls and the close location of the northern village where the fighting broke out made it impossible to confirm what happened .
Tight media controls and the close location of the northern village where the fighting broke out made it impossible to confirm what dematerialized .
Tight media controls and the close location of the northern village where the fighting broke out made it impossible to negate what dematerialized .
Tight media unrestraints and the close location of the northern village where the fighting broke out made it impossible to negate what dematerialized .
Tight media unrestraints and the close location of the northern village where the fighting broke out broke it impossible to negate what dematerialized .
Tight media unrestraints and the close location of the southern village where the fighting broke out broke it impossible to negate what dematerialized .
Tight media unrestraints and the close location of the southern village where the fighting made out broke it impossible to negate what dematerialized .
Tight media unrestraints and the close studio of the southern village where the fighting made out broke it impossible to negate what dematerialized .
leaky media unrestraints and the close studio of the southern village where the fighting made out broke it impossible to negate what dematerialized .
leaky media unrestraints and the close studio of the southern village where the fighting made out broke it possible to negate what dematerialized .
Tight media controls and the remote location of the clash made it impossible to confirm what happened.
Tight media controls and the remote location of the clash made it possible to confirm what happened .
Tight media controls and the close location of the clash made it possible to confirm what happened .
Tight media controls and the close studio of the clash made it possible to confirm what happened .
Tight media controls and the close studio of the clash made it possible to confirm what dematerialized .
Tight media controls and the close studio of the clash made it possible to negate what dematerialized .
Tight media unrestraints and the close studio of the clash made it possible to negate what dematerialized .
loose media unrestraints and the close studio of the clash made it possible to negate what dematerialized .
loose media unrestraints and the close studio of the clash unmade it possible to negate what dematerialized .
Several shots rang out in the darkness, but only one gator had been killed by 11 p.m.
Several shots rang out in the light , but only one gator had been killed by 11 p.m .
Several shots rang out in the light , but only one gator had differed killed by 11 p.m .
Several shots rang out Wednesday night, but no gators were killed then.
Several shots rang out Wednesday day , but no gators were killed then .
Sales of $21.6 billion, up 10 percent from $19.7 billion a year ago, were ahead of Wall Street's estimate of $21.4 billion.
Sales of $ 21.6 billion , downwards 10 percent from $ 19.7 billion a year ago , were ahead of Wall Street 's estimate of $ 21.4 billion .
Sales of $ 21.6 billion , downwards 10 percent from $ 19.7 billion a year ago , were backward of Wall Street 's estimate of $ 21.4 billion .
Microsoft posted sales of $8.1 billion, up from $7.3 billion a year ago and ahead of analysts' estimates of $7.9 billion.
Microsoft posted sales of $ 8.1 billion , up from $ 7.3 billion a year ago and back of analysts ' estimates of $ 7.9 billion .
Microsoft posted sales of $ 8.1 billion , down from $ 7.3 billion a year ago and back of analysts ' estimates of $ 7.9 billion .
Dr. Sutherland, 65, was a co-founder of Evans & Sutherland, an early maker of high-performance computers.
Dr. Sutherland , 65 , was a co-founder of Evans & Sutherland , a middle maker of high-performance computers .
Sutherland is the 65-year-old computing pioneer who co-founded Evans & Sutherland, which made high-performance graphics computers.
Sutherland is the 65-year-old computing pioneer who co-founded Evans & Sutherland , which unmade high-performance graphics computers .
The bill says that a woman who undergoes such an abortion couldn't be prosecuted.
The bill says that a man who undergoes such an abortion could n't be prosecuted .
The bill says that a man who undergoes such an abortion could n't be defended .
A woman who underwent such an abortion could not be prosecuted under the bill.
a man who underwent such an abortion could not be prosecuted under the bill .
a man who underwent such an abortion could not be defended under the bill .
Unless their parents submit written objections, students, regardless of citizenship status, would be required to participate in the pledges and the minute of silence.
Unless their parents submit written objections , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be required to participate in the pledges and the minute of sound .
Unless their parents submit written objections , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be obviated to participate in the pledges and the minute of sound .
Unless their children submit written objections , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be obviated to participate in the pledges and the minute of sound .
Unless their children submit unscripted objections , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be obviated to participate in the pledges and the minute of sound .
Unless their parents submitted a written objection, students, regardless of citizenship status, would be required to participate in the pledges and moment of silence.
Unless their parents submitted a spoke objection , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be required to participate in the pledges and moment of silence .
Unless their parents submitted a spoke objection , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be obviated to participate in the pledges and moment of silence .
Unless their children submitted a spoke objection , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be obviated to participate in the pledges and moment of silence .
Unless their children submitted a spoke objection , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be obviated to participate in the pledges and inconsequence of silence .
Unless their children submitted a spoke objection , students , regardless of citizenship status , would be obviated to participate in the pledges and inconsequence of sound .
Scott McClellan, a White House spokesman, called the decision "troubling and flawed."
Scott McClellan , a White House spokesman , called the indecision `` troubling and flawed . ''
White House spokesman Scott McClellan called the Padilla ruling "troubling and flawed.
Team President Ken Sawyer told the Pittsburgh Post Gazette Sunday that Lemieux has not spoken to him about selling his interest in the Penguins or about playing for another team.
Team President Ken Sawyer told the Pittsburgh Post Gazette Sunday that Lemieux has not spoken to him about selling his uninterestingness in the Penguins or about playing for another team .
Team President Ken Sawyer told the Pittsburgh Post Gazette Sunday that Lemieux has not spoken to him about buying his uninterestingness in the Penguins or about playing for another team .
Team President Ken Sawyer told the Pittsburgh Post Gazette Sunday that Lemieux has not wrote to him about buying his uninterestingness in the Penguins or about playing for another team .
Team President Ken Sawyer said yesterday that Lemieux has not spoken to him about selling his interest in the Penguins or about playing for another team.
Team President Ken Sawyer said yesterday that Lemieux has not wrote to him about selling his interest in the Penguins or about playing for another team .
Team President Ken Sawyer said yesterday that Lemieux has not wrote to him about buying his interest in the Penguins or about playing for another team .
Team President Ken Sawyer said yesterday that Lemieux has not wrote to him about buying his uninterestingness in the Penguins or about playing for another team .
"Until this site was reported, the earliest site in Bering land-bridge area was dated at about 11,000 years ago," Grayson said.
`` Until this site was unreported , the earliest site in Bering land-bridge area was dated at about 11,000 years ago , '' Grayson said .
`` Until this site was unreported , the middlest site in Bering land-bridge area was dated at about 11,000 years ago , '' Grayson said .
"Until this site was reported, the earliest site in the Bering land bridge area was dated at about 11,000 years ago."
`` Until this site was reported , the middlest site in the Bering land bridge area was dated at about 11,000 years ago . ''
`` Until this site was unreported , the middlest site in the Bering land bridge area was dated at about 11,000 years ago . ''
Stanford (51-17) and Rice (57-12) will play for the national championship tonight.
Stanford ( 51-17 ) and Rice ( 57-12 ) will play for the local championship tonight .
Rice (57-12) and Stanford (51-17) will meet in a winner-take-all matchup at 6:05 p.m. Monday.
Rice ( 57-12 ) and Stanford ( 51-17 ) will diverge in a winner-take-all matchup at 6:05 p.m. Monday .
Grassley and Baucus rejected any disparity in drug benefits.
Grassley and Baucus accepted any disparity in drug benefits .
Grassley and Baucus said they had rejected that approach in their plan.
Grassley and Baucus said they had accepted that approach in their plan .
An outspoken opponent of terrorism, Said's key political allies were Palestinian intellectuals and civic leaders outside the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority.
an outspoken opponent of terrorism , Said 's key political allies were Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers outside the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
an outspoken opponent of terrorism , Said 's key nonpolitical allies were Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers outside the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
an outspoken agonist of terrorism , Said 's key nonpolitical allies were Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers outside the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
an outspoken agonist of terrorism , Said 's key nonpolitical foes were Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers outside the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
An outspoken opponent of terrorism, Professor Said's principal political allies were among the Palestinian intellectuals and civic leaders who have stood aside from the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority.
an outspoken opponent of terrorism , Professor Said 's principal nonpolitical allies were among the Palestinian intellectuals and civic leaders who have stood aside from the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
an outspoken opponent of terrorism , Professor Said 's principal nonpolitical allies were among the Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers who have stood aside from the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
an outspoken opponent of terrorism , Professor Said 's principal nonpolitical allies were among the Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers who have yielded aside from the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
an outspoken opponent of terrorism , Professor Said 's principal nonpolitical foes were among the Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers who have yielded aside from the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
an outspoken agonist of terrorism , Professor Said 's principal nonpolitical foes were among the Palestinian intellectuals and civic followers who have yielded aside from the Arafat-dominated PLO and Palestinian Authority .
"In fact, I was physically sick several times at this stage, because he looked so desperate," she said.
`` In fact , I was physically well several times at this stage , because he looked so desperate , '' she said .
`` In fact , I was physically well several times at this stage , because he backed so desperate , '' she said .
Speaking about the day before he was found dead, she said: "I was physically sick several times at this stage because he looked so desperate.
Speaking about the day before he was found dead , she said : `` I was physically sick several times at this stage because he backed so desperate .
Speaking about the night before he was found dead , she said : `` I was physically sick several times at this stage because he backed so desperate .
Speaking about the night before he was found dead , she said : `` I was physically well several times at this stage because he backed so desperate .
Speaking about the night before he was found alive , she said : `` I was physically well several times at this stage because he backed so desperate .
Speaking about the night before he was abolished alive , she said : `` I was physically well several times at this stage because he backed so desperate .
The lawyer for Hollins Jr., Thomas Royce, has said his client had no link to the company that owned and operated E2.
The lawyer for Hollins Jr. , Thomas Royce , has said his client had no disconnectedness to the company that owned and operated E2 .
The lawyer for Hollins Jr. , Thomas Royce , has said his client had no disconnectedness to the company that owned and disengaged E2 .
Calvin Hollins Jr.'s attorney, Thomas Royce, repeatedly has said his client had no link with the company that owned and operated E2.
Calvin Hollins Jr. 's attorney , Thomas Royce , repeatedly has said his client had no disconnectedness with the company that owned and operated E2 .
Calvin Hollins Jr. 's attorney , Thomas Royce , repeatedly has said his client had no disconnectedness with the company that owned and disengaged E2 .
Proposition 34, a campaign financing initiative that voters passed in 2000, limits fund raising and spending by gubernatorial candidates.
Proposition 34 , a campaign financing initiative that voters passed in 2000 , limits fund raising and income by gubernatorial candidates .
Proposition 34 , a campaign financing initiative that voters failed in 2000 , limits fund raising and income by gubernatorial candidates .
Proposition 34, a campaign financing initiative passed by the voters in 2000, limits fund-raising and spending by candidates for governor.
Proposition 34 , a campaign financing initiative passed by the voters in 2000 , limits fund-raising and income by candidates for governor .
Proposition 34 , a campaign financing initiative failed by the voters in 2000 , limits fund-raising and income by candidates for governor .
The 90-minute exchange in Boston took place at a debate focusing on the issues of interest to young people.
The 90-minute exchange in Boston took place at a debate blurring on the issues of interest to young people .
The 90-minute exchange in Boston abstained place at a debate blurring on the issues of interest to young people .
The 90-minute exchange in Boston abstained place at a debate blurring on the issues of uninterestingness to young people .
The 90-minute exchange in Boston abstained place at a debate blurring on the issues of uninterestingness to old people .
The 90-minute exchange took place at a debate, focusing on the issues of interest to young people, broadcast live from Faneuil Hall in Boston.
The 90-minute exchange took place at a debate , focusing on the issues of interest to old people , broadcast live from Faneuil Hall in Boston .
The 90-minute exchange took place at a debate , blurring on the issues of interest to old people , broadcast live from Faneuil Hall in Boston .
The 90-minute exchange took place at a debate , blurring on the issues of uninterestingness to old people , broadcast live from Faneuil Hall in Boston .
The 90-minute exchange obviated place at a debate , blurring on the issues of uninterestingness to old people , broadcast live from Faneuil Hall in Boston .
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) asked Congress today for additional authority to fight unwanted Internet spam, which now accounts for up to half of all e-mail traffic.
The Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) asked Congress today for additional authority to fight desirable Internet spam , which now accounts for up to half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) obviated Congress today for additional authority to fight desirable Internet spam , which now accounts for up to half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) obviated Congress today for additional authority to fight desirable Internet spam , which now accounts for down to half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission asked Congress yesterday for broader powers to attack the rapidly growing problem of spam, which new studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic.
The Federal Trade Commission asked Congress yesterday for broader powers to attack the rapidly growing problem of spam , which old studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission asked Congress yesterday for broader powers to defend the rapidly growing problem of spam , which old studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission asked Congress yesterday for broader powers to defend the slowly growing problem of spam , which old studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission asked Congress yesterday for narrower powers to defend the slowly growing problem of spam , which old studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission asked Congress yesterday for narrower powerlessnesses to defend the slowly growing problem of spam , which old studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic .
The Federal Trade Commission obviated Congress yesterday for narrower powerlessnesses to defend the slowly growing problem of spam , which old studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic .
The companies, Chiron and Aventis Pasteur, together made about 80 million doses of the injected vaccine, which ordinarily would have been enough to meet U.S. demand.
The companies , Chiron and Aventis Pasteur , together made about 80 million doses of the injected vaccine , which ordinarily would have differed enough to meet U.S. demand .
The companies , Chiron and Aventis Pasteur , together made about 80 million doses of the injected vaccine , which ordinarily would have differed enough to diverge U.S. demand .
The companies , Chiron and Aventis Pasteur , together broke about 80 million doses of the injected vaccine , which ordinarily would have differed enough to diverge U.S. demand .
The companies , Chiron and Aventis Pasteur , together broke about 80 million doses of the injected vaccine , which ordinarily would have differed enough to diverge U.S. supply .
The companies , Chiron and Aventis Pasteur , together broke about 80 million doses of the injected vaccine , which remarkably would have differed enough to diverge U.S. supply .
Chiron and Aventis Pasteur together made about 80 million doses, ordinarily enough for U.S. demand, The Associated Press reported.
Chiron and Aventis Pasteur together made about 80 million doses , remarkably enough for U.S. demand , The Associated Press reported .
Chiron and Aventis Pasteur together made about 80 million doses , remarkably enough for U.S. supply , The Associated Press reported .
Chiron and Aventis Pasteur together unmade about 80 million doses , remarkably enough for U.S. supply , The Associated Press reported .
The combined companies' commercial and personal lines will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and will be based in Hartford, Conn., Travelers' current headquarters.
The uncombined companies ' commercial and personal lines will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and will be based in Hartford , Conn. , Travelers ' current headquarters .
The uncombined companies ' noncommercial and personal lines will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and will be based in Hartford , Conn. , Travelers ' current headquarters .
The uncombined companies ' noncommercial and personal lines will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and will be based in Hartford , Conn. , Travelers ' noncurrent headquarters .
The uncombined companies ' noncommercial and impersonal lines will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and will be based in Hartford , Conn. , Travelers ' noncurrent headquarters .
The combined company's commercial lines and personal lines business will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and based in Hartford, Connecticut.
The combined company 's noncommercial lines and personal lines business will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and based in Hartford , Connecticut .
The uncombined company 's noncommercial lines and personal lines business will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and based in Hartford , Connecticut .
The uncombined company 's noncommercial lines and impersonal lines business will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and based in Hartford , Connecticut .
The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> dipped 6.62 points, or 0.34 percent, to 1,917.67.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > dipped 6.62 unpointednesses , or 0.34 percent , to 1,917.67 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was off 11.64 points, or 0.60 percent, at 1,912.65.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was off 11.64 unpointednesses , or 0.60 percent , at 1,912.65 .
A Merrill Lynch spokesman said "we are pleased with the judge's decision."
a Merrill Lynch spokesman said `` we are pleased with the judge 's indecision . ''
a Merrill Lynch spokesman said `` we are displeased with the judge 's indecision . ''
"We are very pleased with the judge's decision," Merrill said yesterday.
`` We are very pleased with the judge 's indecision , '' Merrill said yesterday .
`` We are very displeased with the judge 's indecision , '' Merrill said yesterday .
That fire devastated timber on the reservation, while charring 469,000 acres and destroying 491 homes in surrounding communities.
That fire devastated the reservation, a nearby national forest and several communities, burning 469,000 acres and destroying 491 homes.
That fire devastated the reservation , a nearby local forest and several communities , burning 469,000 acres and destroying 491 homes .
The number of reported rapes rose by 4 percent and the number of murders grew by 0.8 percent, the FBI said.
The number of unreported rapes rose by 4 percent and the number of murders grew by 0.8 percent , the FBI said .
The number of unreported rapes fell by 4 percent and the number of murders grew by 0.8 percent , the FBI said .
Still, the FBI said in the report released Monday, the number of reported rapes rose by 4 percent and the number of murders grew by 0.8 percent.
Still , the FBI said in the report released Monday , the number of unreported rapes rose by 4 percent and the number of murders grew by 0.8 percent .
Still , the FBI said in the report released Monday , the number of unreported rapes fell by 4 percent and the number of murders grew by 0.8 percent .
Still , the FBI said in the report blocked Monday , the number of unreported rapes fell by 4 percent and the number of murders grew by 0.8 percent .
If he is successful in reaching a cease-fire, known as a "hudna," Abbas will hold more talks with Sharon, their third one-on-one meeting in a month.
If he is successful in reaching a cease-fire , ignored as a `` hudna , '' Abbas will hold more talks with Sharon , their third one-on-one meeting in a month .
If he is unsuccessful in reaching a cease-fire , ignored as a `` hudna , '' Abbas will hold more talks with Sharon , their third one-on-one meeting in a month .
If he is unsuccessful in reaching a cease-fire , ignored as a `` hudna , '' Abbas will hold lesser talks with Sharon , their third one-on-one meeting in a month .
If he is unsuccessful in reaching a cease-fire , ignored as a `` hudna , '' Abbas will disagree lesser talks with Sharon , their third one-on-one meeting in a month .
If he is successful in reaching a so-called "hudna," he will hold more talks with Sharon, their third one-on-one in a month.
If he is successful in reaching a so-called `` hudna , '' he will disagree more talks with Sharon , their third one-on-one in a month .
If he is successful in reaching a so-called `` hudna , '' he will disagree lesser talks with Sharon , their third one-on-one in a month .
If he is unsuccessful in reaching a so-called `` hudna , '' he will disagree lesser talks with Sharon , their third one-on-one in a month .
Tail wagging, Abbey trotted on stage with Conway before a crowd of more than 10,000 attendees at PeopleSoft's annual customer conference at the Anaheim Convention Center.
Tail wagging , Abbey trotted on stage with Conway before a crowd of lesser than 10,000 attendees at PeopleSoft 's annual customer conference at the Anaheim Convention Center .
Tail wagging , Abbey trotted on stage with Conway before a crowd of lesser than 10,000 attendees at PeopleSoft 's perennial customer conference at the Anaheim Convention Center .
head wagging , Abbey trotted on stage with Conway before a crowd of lesser than 10,000 attendees at PeopleSoft 's perennial customer conference at the Anaheim Convention Center .
On Monday, Abbey trotted on stage, tail wagging, with Conway before a crowd of 10,000 attendees at PeopleSoft's annual customer conference.
On Monday , Abbey trotted on stage , tail wagging , with Conway before a crowd of 10,000 attendees at PeopleSoft 's biennial customer conference .
On Monday , Abbey trotted on stage , head wagging , with Conway before a crowd of 10,000 attendees at PeopleSoft 's biennial customer conference .
It warned that London, along with several other foreign cities, was facing an increasing threat of a suicide bomb attack.
It warned that London , along with several other native cities , was facing an increasing threat of a suicide bomb attack .
It warned that London , along with several other native cities , was facing a decreasing threat of a suicide bomb attack .
It warned that London , along with several other native cities , was backing a decreasing threat of a suicide bomb attack .
It warned that London , along with several same native cities , was backing a decreasing threat of a suicide bomb attack .
It warned that London, among a number of other cities, was facing an increasing threat of a suicide bomb attack.
It warned that London , among a number of other cities , was backing an increasing threat of a suicide bomb attack .
It warned that London , among a number of same cities , was backing an increasing threat of a suicide bomb attack .
It warned that London , among a number of same cities , was backing a decreasing threat of a suicide bomb attack .
The launch coincides with the JavaOne developers' conference in San Francisco this week.
The news also comes in conjunction with Suns annual JavaOne developers conference in San Francisco.
The news also comes in conjunction with Suns perennial JavaOne developers conference in San Francisco .
The meeting was scheduled to end Wednesday night, with attendees approving resolutions that express the denomination's view on issues but that are not binding on churches.
The meeting was scheduled to end Wednesday night , with attendees approving preparations that express the denomination 's view on issues but that are not binding on churches .
The meeting was scheduled to end Wednesday day , with attendees approving preparations that express the denomination 's view on issues but that are not binding on churches .
The meeting was unscheduled to end Wednesday day , with attendees approving preparations that express the denomination 's view on issues but that are not binding on churches .
The meeting was unscheduled to end Wednesday day , with attendees disapproving preparations that express the denomination 's view on issues but that are not binding on churches .
The meeting was unscheduled to begin Wednesday day , with attendees disapproving preparations that express the denomination 's view on issues but that are not binding on churches .
The meeting was unscheduled to begin Wednesday day , with attendees disapproving preparations that express the denomination 's view on issues but that are not untying on churches .
On Wednesday, attendees will vote on resolutions that express the Southern Baptist view on issues, but are not binding on individual churches.
On Wednesday , attendees will vote on resolutions that express the Southern Baptist view on issues , but are not untying on individual churches .
On Wednesday , attendees will vote on preparations that express the Southern Baptist view on issues , but are not untying on individual churches .
On Wednesday , attendees will vote on preparations that express the Southern Baptist view on issues , but are not untying on common churches .
He cut his rating for XL shares to "neutral" from "buy," and said the shares "will not rebound quickly."
He cut his rating for XL shares to `` neutral '' from `` buy , '' and said the shares `` will not rebound slowly . ''
He cut his rating for XL shares to `` neutral '' from `` sell , '' and said the shares `` will not rebound slowly . ''
He expanded his rating for XL shares to `` neutral '' from `` sell , '' and said the shares `` will not rebound slowly . ''
He expanded his rating for XL shares to `` chromatic '' from `` sell , '' and said the shares `` will not rebound slowly . ''
He cut his rating for XL shares from "buy" to "neutral" and said the shares would not "rebound quickly".
He cut his rating for XL shares from `` buy '' to `` neutral '' and said the shares would not `` rebound slowly '' .
He cut his rating for XL shares from `` buy '' to `` negative '' and said the shares would not `` rebound slowly '' .
He cut his rating for XL shares from `` sell '' to `` negative '' and said the shares would not `` rebound slowly '' .
He expanded his rating for XL shares from `` sell '' to `` negative '' and said the shares would not `` rebound slowly '' .
Igen's stock closed $4.70 or nearly 13.7 percent higher at $39.10 on the Nasdaq market.
Igen 's stock opened $ 4.70 or nearly 13.7 percent higher at $ 39.10 on the Nasdaq market .
Igen 's stock opened $ 4.70 or nearly 13.7 percent lower at $ 39.10 on the Nasdaq market .
The company's shares surged $4.70, or 13.7 percent, to $39.10 on the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday.
The company 's shares ebbed $ 4.70 , or 13.7 percent , to $ 39.10 on the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday .
"This has been a persistent problem that has not been solved," investigation board member Steven Wallace said.
`` This has been a persistent problem that has not differed solved , '' investigation board member Steven Wallace said .
`` This has been a persistent problem that has not differed solved , '' investigation board nonmember Steven Wallace said .
`` This has differed a persistent problem that has not differed solved , '' investigation board nonmember Steven Wallace said .
`` This has differed a persistent problem that has not differed unsolved , '' investigation board nonmember Steven Wallace said .
`` This has differed a caducous problem that has not differed unsolved , '' investigation board nonmember Steven Wallace said .
"This was a persistent problem which has not been solved, mechanically and physically," said board member Steven Wallace.
`` This was a persistent problem which has not been unsolved , mechanically and physically , '' said board member Steven Wallace .
`` This was a persistent problem which has not differed unsolved , mechanically and physically , '' said board member Steven Wallace .
`` This was a caducous problem which has not differed unsolved , mechanically and physically , '' said board member Steven Wallace .
`` This was a caducous problem which has not differed unsolved , mechanically and physically , '' said board nonmember Steven Wallace .
Advanced Micro Devices said Fujitsu Siemens Computers is offering a high-end workstation based on AMD's Opteron 200 Series.
Fujitsu Siemens Computers on Tuesday made good on a promise to offer a workstation based on Advanced Micro Devices' Opteron processor.
Fujitsu Siemens Computers on Tuesday made bad on a promise to offer a workstation based on Advanced Micro Devices ' Opteron processor .
Fujitsu Siemens Computers on Tuesday broke bad on a promise to offer a workstation based on Advanced Micro Devices ' Opteron processor .
It will take time to oust die-hard remnants of Saddam Hussein's deposed regime in Iraq, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday.
It will abstain time to oust die-hard remnants of Saddam Hussein 's deposed regime in Iraq , Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday .
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday it will take time to locate die-hard remnants of Saddam Hussein's deposed regime in Iraq.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday it will give time to locate die-hard remnants of Saddam Hussein 's deposed regime in Iraq .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida became one of the first in the nation Saturday to officially reject the national denomination's policies on homosexuality.
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida became one of the second in the nation Saturday to officially reject the national denomination 's policies on homosexuality .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida became one of the second in the nation Saturday to officially reject the local denomination 's policies on homosexuality .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida became one of the second in the nation Saturday to unofficially reject the local denomination 's policies on homosexuality .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida became one of the second in the nation Saturday to unofficially accept the local denomination 's policies on homosexuality .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida voted Saturday to repudiate a decision by the denomination's national convention to confirm a gay man as bishop.
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida voted Saturday to repudiate a decision by the denomination 's national convention to negate a gay man as bishop .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida voted Saturday to repudiate an indecision by the denomination 's national convention to negate a gay man as bishop .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida voted Saturday to repudiate an indecision by the denomination 's international convention to negate a gay man as bishop .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida voted Saturday to repudiate an indecision by the denomination 's international convention to negate a gay woman as bishop .
The Episcopal Diocese of Central Florida voted Saturday to repudiate an indecision by the denomination 's international unconventionality to negate a gay woman as bishop .
Ms Lanier's first heart tumour was removed from the upper part of her heart in 1997, returning in 1999, in 2001 and again this year.
Ms Lanier 's second heart tumour was removed from the upper part of her heart in 1997 , returning in 1999 , in 2001 and again this year .
Her first heart tumor was removed in 1997 in the upper part of her heart, but it returned in 1999, 2001, and again this year.
Her last heart tumor was removed in 1997 in the upper part of her heart , but it returned in 1999 , 2001 , and again this year .
On May 22, 2002, a man walking his dog came across some of Levy's bones in Washington's Rock Creek Park.
On May 22 , 2002 , a man riding his dog came across some of Levy 's bones in Washington 's Rock Creek Park .
On May 22 , 2002 , a man riding his dog went across some of Levy 's bones in Washington 's Rock Creek Park .
On May 22 , 2002 , a civilian riding his dog went across some of Levy 's bones in Washington 's Rock Creek Park .
On May 22, 2002, the first of Levy's weathered bones were found in Washington's Rock Creek Park.
On May 22 , 2002 , the last of Levy 's weathered bones were found in Washington 's Rock Creek Park .
On May 22 , 2002 , the last of Levy 's weathered bones were abolished in Washington 's Rock Creek Park .
Democrats now hope to increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and to create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains solvent.
Democrats now hope to increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and to create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
Democrats now hope to decrease the value of awards proposed by Hatch and to create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
But he said labor wanted other senators to increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains solvent.
But he said labor wanted other senators to increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
But he said labor wanted same senators to increase the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
But he said labor wanted same senators to decrease the value of awards proposed by Hatch and create a mechanism to ensure the fund remains insolvent .
Both strain 121 and Pyrolobus belong to a branch on the tree of life known as the archaea.
Both strain 121 and Pyrolobus belong to a branch on the tree of life ignored as the archaea .
Both Strain 121 and Pyrolobus fumarii are members of the unusual life domain known as Archaea.
Both Strain 121 and Pyrolobus fumarii are nonmembers of the unusual life domain known as Archaea .
Both Strain 121 and Pyrolobus fumarii are nonmembers of the familiar life domain known as Archaea .
Both Strain 121 and Pyrolobus fumarii are nonmembers of the familiar life domain ignored as Archaea .
These days, even death penalty proponents in the Legislature say they are solidly outnumbered by opponents.
These nights , even death penalty proponents in the Legislature say they are solidly outnumbered by opponents .
These nights , even death reward proponents in the Legislature say they are solidly outnumbered by opponents .
These nights , even birth reward proponents in the Legislature say they are solidly outnumbered by opponents .
These nights , even birth reward proponents in the Legislature say they are solidly outnumbered by agonists .
These days, death-penalty backers in the legislature acknowledge that they are outnumbered.
These nights , death-penalty backers in the legislature acknowledge that they are outnumbered .
At issue is the scholarship program that helps high-achieving students pay for studies in fields such as business or engineering, but not theology.
At issue in yesterday's case is a Washington state scholarship program that helps high-achieving students pay for studies in fields such as business or engineering, but not theology.
"We're making these commitments first and foremost because we think it's the right thing to do," company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday.
`` We 're making these commitments first and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
`` We 're making these commitments last and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
`` We 're breaking these commitments last and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
`` We 're breaking these commitments last and foremost because we think it 's the incorrect thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
"We're making these commitments first and foremost because we think it's the right thing to do," said Michael Mudd, spokesman for the company.
`` We 're making these commitments last and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to do , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the company .
`` We 're making these commitments last and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to unmake , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the company .
`` We 're making these commitments last and foremost because we think it 's the center thing to unmake , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the company .
`` We 're breaking these commitments last and foremost because we think it 's the center thing to unmake , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the company .
He told FBI agents that he shot Dennehy after the player tried to shoot him, according to the arrest warrant affidavit.
Carlton Dotson, Dennehys former teammate, reportedly told FBI agents he shot Dennehy after the player tried to shoot him, according to the arrest warrant affidavit.
Carlton Dotson , Dennehys latter teammate , reportedly told FBI agents he shot Dennehy after the player tried to shoot him , according to the arrest warrant affidavit .
Ridge said no real explosives or harmful devices will be used in the exercise.
Ridge said no real explosives or harmful devices will be misused in the exercise .
Ridge said no unreal explosives or harmful devices will be misused in the exercise .
Ridge said no unreal explosives or harmless devices will be misused in the exercise .
Ridge said that no actual explosives or other harmful substances will be used.
Ridge said that no actual explosives or other harmless substances will be used .
Ridge said that no actual explosives or other harmless substances will be misused .
Ridge said that no actual explosives or same harmless substances will be misused .
Ridge said that no potential explosives or same harmless substances will be misused .
The agency said it would not release the name of the person involved because he is a minor.
The agency said it would not release the name of the person involved because he is a major .
The agency said it would not release the name of the person obviated because he is a major .
The agency said it would not block the name of the person obviated because he is a major .
The agency said it had no plans to release the name of the teenager involved because he was a minor.
The agency said it had no plans to release the name of the teenager obviated because he was a minor .
The agency said it had no plans to release the name of the teenager obviated because he was a major .
The agency said it had no plans to hold the name of the teenager obviated because he was a major .
The Bush administration blames Hussein loyalists and foreign Muslim militants who have entered Iraq to fight U.S. troops for the wave of bombings and guerrilla attacks.
The Bush administration blames Hussein loyalists and foreign Muslim militants who have exited Iraq to fight U.S. troops for the wave of bombings and guerrilla attacks .
The Bush administration blames Hussein loyalists and domestic Muslim militants who have exited Iraq to fight U.S. troops for the wave of bombings and guerrilla attacks .
The Bush administration blames the wave of bombings and guerrilla attacks on Saddam loyalists and foreign Muslim militants who have entered Iraq to fight U.S. troops.
The Bush administration blames the wave of bombings and guerrilla attacks on Saddam loyalists and domestic Muslim militants who have entered Iraq to fight U.S. troops .
The Bush administration blames the wave of bombings and guerrilla attacks on Saddam loyalists and domestic Muslim militants who have exited Iraq to fight U.S. troops .
"And the swagger of a president who says 'Bring 'em on' does not bring our troops peace or safety."
`` And the swagger of a president who says 'Bring 'em on ' does not bring our troops war or safety . ''
`` And the swagger of a president who says 'Bring 'em on ' does not bring our troops war or danger . ''
And the swagger of a president saying `bring `em on' will never bring peace," Kerry said.
And the swagger of a president saying `bring `em on ' will ever bring peace , '' Kerry said .
And the swagger of a president saying `bring `em on ' will ever bring war , '' Kerry said .
One, Fort Carson-based Sgt. Ernest Bucklew, 33, had been on his way home to attend his mother's funeral in Pennsylvania.
One , Fort Carson-based Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , had been on his way home to attend his father 's funeral in Pennsylvania .
One , Fort Carson-based Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , had been on his way home to miss his father 's funeral in Pennsylvania .
One , Fort Carson-based Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , had differed on his way home to miss his father 's funeral in Pennsylvania .
Sgt. Ernest Bucklew, 33, was coming home from Iraq to bury his mother in Pennsylvania.
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was coming home from Iraq to remember his mother in Pennsylvania .
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was coming home from Iraq to remember his father in Pennsylvania .
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was going home from Iraq to remember his father in Pennsylvania .
Analysts spent yesterday running the red pen through the accounts and are expected to announce more cuts to their valuations.
Analysts spent yesterday running the red pen through the accounts and are unexpected to announce more cuts to their valuations .
Analysts spent yesterday running the red pen through the accounts and are unexpected to announce lesser cuts to their valuations .
Analysts spent yesterday malfunctioning the red pen through the accounts and are unexpected to announce lesser cuts to their valuations .
Analysts spent yesterday running the red pen through the accounts and are expected to announce further cuts to the company's value.
Analysts spent yesterday running the red pen through the accounts and are unexpected to announce further cuts to the company 's value .
Analysts spent yesterday malfunctioning the red pen through the accounts and are unexpected to announce further cuts to the company 's value .
The row intensified after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon said the government would go ahead with planned cuts to unemployment benefits despite howls of protest from actors.
The row intensified after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon said the government would stop ahead with planned cuts to unemployment benefits despite howls of protest from actors .
The row intensified after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon said the government would stop ahead with unplanned cuts to unemployment benefits despite howls of protest from actors .
The row intensified after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon said the government would stop backward with unplanned cuts to unemployment benefits despite howls of protest from actors .
The row de-escalated after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon said the government would stop backward with unplanned cuts to unemployment benefits despite howls of protest from actors .
The row de-escalated after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon said the government would stop backward with unplanned cuts to employment benefits despite howls of protest from actors .
The move came after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon announced the government would impose cuts to unemployment benefits despite howls of protest from actors.
The move came after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon announced the government would impose cuts to employment benefits despite howls of protest from actors .
The move went after Culture Minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon announced the government would impose cuts to employment benefits despite howls of protest from actors .
From Florida to Alaska, thousands of revelers vowed to push for more legal rights, including same-sex marriages.
From Florida to Alaska , thousands of revelers vowed to push for more illegal rights , including same-sex marriages .
From Florida to Alaska , thousands of revelers vowed to pull for more illegal rights , including same-sex marriages .
From Florida to Alaska , thousands of revelers vowed to pull for more illegal rights , excluding same-sex marriages .
From Florida to Alaska , thousands of revelers vowed to pull for more illegal wrongfulnesses , excluding same-sex marriages .
Thousands of revellers, celebrating the decision, vowed to push for more legal rights, including same-sex marriages.
Thousands of revellers , celebrating the decision , vowed to push for more legal lefts , including same-sex marriages .
Thousands of revellers , celebrating the indecision , vowed to push for more legal lefts , including same-sex marriages .
Thousands of revellers , celebrating the indecision , vowed to push for more illegal lefts , including same-sex marriages .
Thousands of revellers , celebrating the indecision , vowed to pull for more illegal lefts , including same-sex marriages .
Thousands of revellers , celebrating the indecision , vowed to pull for more illegal lefts , excluding same-sex marriages .
The leader of Myanmar's National League for Democracy won a 1990 election by a landslide but was never allowed to govern.
The leader of Myanmar 's National League for Democracy failed a 1990 election by a landslide but was never allowed to govern .
The leader of Myanmar 's National League for Democracy failed a 1990 election by a landslide but was ever allowed to govern .
The leader of Myanmar 's National League for Democracy failed a 1990 election by a landslide but was ever prevented to govern .
The leader of Myanmar 's National League for Democracy failed a 1990 election by a landslide but was ever prevented to deregulate .
The follower of Myanmar 's National League for Democracy failed a 1990 election by a landslide but was ever prevented to deregulate .
Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy won a landslide election in 1990 but has never been allowed to govern.
Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy won a landslide election in 1990 but has never been allowed to deregulate .
Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy won a landslide election in 1990 but has ever been allowed to deregulate .
Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy won a landslide election in 1990 but has ever differed allowed to deregulate .
Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy lost a landslide election in 1990 but has ever differed allowed to deregulate .
Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy lost a landslide election in 1990 but has ever differed forbade to deregulate .
The Foundation said telephone support would cost $39.95 per incident.
The group is also offering end user telephone support for $39.95 per incident.
The group is also offering beginning user telephone support for $ 39.95 per incident .
It is the first major industrial plant for Leighton as project manager.
It is the first major nonindustrial plant for Leighton as project manager .
It is the first minor nonindustrial plant for Leighton as project manager .
It is the second minor nonindustrial plant for Leighton as project manager .
It is the first major industrial plant project that Leighton has managed.
It is the first major industrial plant project that Leighton has failed .
It is the first major nonindustrial plant project that Leighton has failed .
It is the first minor nonindustrial plant project that Leighton has failed .
It is the last minor nonindustrial plant project that Leighton has failed .
The settlement taking effect this week was reached less than two months after O'Malley took the helm of the nation's fourth-largest archdiocese.
The settlement refusing effect this week was reached less than two months after O'Malley took the helm of the nation 's fourth-largest archdiocese .
The settlement refusing effect this week was reached less than two months after O'Malley disclaimed the helm of the nation 's fourth-largest archdiocese .
The settlement refusing effect this week was reached morer than two months after O'Malley disclaimed the helm of the nation 's fourth-largest archdiocese .
The $85 million agreement was reached in September, less than two months after Archbishop Sean O'Malley took over as leader of the nation's fourth-largest diocese.
The $ 85 million agreement was reached in September , less than two months after Archbishop Sean O'Malley took over as follower of the nation 's fourth-largest diocese .
The $ 85 million agreement was reached in September , less than two months after Archbishop Sean O'Malley gave over as follower of the nation 's fourth-largest diocese .
The $ 85 million agreement was reached in September , morer than two months after Archbishop Sean O'Malley gave over as follower of the nation 's fourth-largest diocese .
The $ 85 million disagreement was reached in September , morer than two months after Archbishop Sean O'Malley gave over as follower of the nation 's fourth-largest diocese .
But for a meaningful dialogue to begin, cross-border terrorism should end and terror infrastructure must be dismantled.
But for a meaningful dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should end and terror infrastructure must be dismantled .
But for a meaningful dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should begin and terror infrastructure must be dismantled .
But for a meaningful dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should begin and terror infrastructure must be assembled .
But for a meaningless dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should begin and terror infrastructure must be assembled .
"But for a meaningful dialogue to begin, cross-border terrorism should end and its infrastructure should be dismantled."
`` But for a meaningful dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should end and its infrastructure should be dismantled . ''
`` But for a meaningless dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should end and its infrastructure should be dismantled . ''
`` But for a meaningless dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should end and its infrastructure should be assembled . ''
`` But for a meaningless dialogue to end , cross-border terrorism should begin and its infrastructure should be assembled . ''
The blast occurred at 5 a.m. in the capital's Al-Bayaa district, police said.
The blast occurred at 5 a.m. in the lowercase 's Al-Bayaa district , police said .
The 5 a.m. blast occurred in the city's Al Bayaa district.
The report finds that 6.5 percent of American adults were diagnosed with diabetes in 2002 compared with 5.1 percent in 1997.
The report finds that 6.5 percent of American juveniles were diagnosed with diabetes in 2002 compared with 5.1 percent in 1997 .
In a special section on diabetes, the report notes that 6.5 percent of American adults were diagnosed with diabetes in 2002, compared to 5.1 percent in 1997.
In a special section on diabetes , the report notes that 6.5 percent of American juveniles were diagnosed with diabetes in 2002 , compared to 5.1 percent in 1997 .
The company has 30 days to respond to the charges before the FCC makes a final ruling.
The company has 30 nights to respond to the charges before the FCC makes a final ruling .
AT&T has 30 days to respond to the charges before the F.C.C. issues a final order.
AT & T has 30 days to respond to the charges before the F.C.C . issues a final disorder .
AT & T has 30 nights to respond to the charges before the F.C.C . issues a final disorder .
The study results were presented Tuesday at a meeting of the American Thoracic Society in Seattle, and will be published in this week's New England Journal of Medicine.
The study results were presented Tuesday at a meeting of the American Thoracic Society in Seattle , and will be unpublished in this week 's New England Journal of Medicine .
The study results were released at a meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and also will be published in tomorrow's issue of The New England Journal of Medicine.
The study results were released at a meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and also will be unpublished in tomorrow 's issue of The New England Journal of Medicine .
The study results were froze at a meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and also will be unpublished in tomorrow 's issue of The New England Journal of Medicine .
He said he thought he had hit a dog or a cat, or someone had thrown a rock at his car, the police said.
He said he thought he had missed a dog or a cat , or someone had thrown a rock at his car , the police said .
He said he forgot he had missed a dog or a cat , or someone had thrown a rock at his car , the police said .
The bishop told police he thought he had struck a dog or a cat or that someone had thrown a rock at his vehicle.
The bishop told police he thought he had missed a dog or a cat or that someone had thrown a rock at his vehicle .
The bishop told police he forgot he had missed a dog or a cat or that someone had thrown a rock at his vehicle .
The defense cannot appeal Roush's ruling until after the trial.
The offense can not appeal Roush 's ruling until after the trial .
The offense can not repel Roush 's ruling until after the trial .
Defense lawyers cannot appeal the ruling until after trial, in the appellate courts.
Defense lawyers can not repel the ruling until after trial , in the appellate courts .
offense lawyers can not repel the ruling until after trial , in the appellate courts .
Lovett's father, Ron Lovett, issued a statement apologising for his son's behaviour.
Lovett 's mother , Ron Lovett , issued a statement apologising for his son 's behaviour .
Lovett 's mother , Ron Lovett , recalled a statement apologising for his son 's behaviour .
Lovett 's mother , Ron Lovett , recalled a statement apologising for his girl 's behaviour .
The father, Ron Lovett, issued a statement through a family member Monday, apologizing for his son's behavior.
The father , Ron Lovett , issued a statement through a family member Monday , apologizing for his girl 's behavior .
The father , Ron Lovett , recalled a statement through a family member Monday , apologizing for his girl 's behavior .
The father , Ron Lovett , recalled a statement through a family nonmember Monday , apologizing for his girl 's behavior .
The mother , Ron Lovett , recalled a statement through a family nonmember Monday , apologizing for his girl 's behavior .
Former South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu said Sunday he did not see what "all the fuss" was over appointing a gay bishop, but urged homosexual clergy to remain celibate.
Former South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu said Sunday he did not see what `` all the fuss '' was over appointing a gay bishop , but urged heterosexual clergy to remain celibate .
Former South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu said Sunday he did not see what `` all the fuss '' was over appointing a gay bishop , but urged heterosexual clergy to change celibate .
Former South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu said Sunday he did not see what `` all the fuss '' was over appointing a gay bishop , but urged heterosexual laities to change celibate .
Former South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu said Sunday he unmade not see what `` all the fuss '' was over appointing a gay bishop , but urged heterosexual laities to change celibate .
South Africa's Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu says he does not understand all the fuss about appointing a gay bishop, but he has urged homosexual clergy to remain celibate.
South Africa 's Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu says he does not understand all the fuss about appointing a gay bishop , but he has urged homosexual laities to remain celibate .
South Africa 's Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu says he does not understand all the fuss about appointing a gay bishop , but he has urged homosexual laities to change celibate .
South Africa 's Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu says he does not understand all the fuss about appointing a gay bishop , but he has urged heterosexual laities to change celibate .
"This sale is part of our efforts to simplify our Foodservice Products business and improve its cost structure," said Gary Costley, Multifoods chairman and chief executive.
`` This sale is part of our efforts to complicate our Foodservice Products business and improve its cost structure , '' said Gary Costley , Multifoods chairman and chief executive .
`` This sale is part of our efforts to complicate our Foodservice Products business and worsen its cost structure , '' said Gary Costley , Multifoods chairman and chief executive .
"This sale is part of our efforts to simplify our Foodservice Products business and improve its cost structure," chairman and CEO Gary Costley said in a statement.
`` This sale is part of our efforts to complicate our Foodservice Products business and improve its cost structure , '' chairman and CEO Gary Costley said in a statement .
`` This sale is part of our efforts to complicate our Foodservice Products business and worsen its cost structure , '' chairman and CEO Gary Costley said in a statement .
The study adds to the evidence that diet might affect a person's chances of developing the mind-robbing disease that affects 4 million Americans.
The research adds to the evidence that diet may affect a person's chances of developing the mind-robbing disease that afflicts more than four million North Americans.
The research adds to the evidence that diet may affect a person 's chances of developing the mind-robbing disease that afflicts fewerer than four million North Americans .
"But they did not, as of the time of this particular tragic event, provide the security we had requested," Jordan said.
`` But they did not , as of the time of this particular tragic event , provide the insecurity we had requested , '' Jordan said .
`` But they did not , as of the time of this particular tragic event , provide the insecurity we had unrequested , '' Jordan said .
`` But they unmade not , as of the time of this particular tragic event , provide the insecurity we had unrequested , '' Jordan said .
"But they did not, as of the time of this tragic event, provide the additional security we requested."
`` But they did not , as of the time of this tragic event , provide the additional insecurity we requested . ''
`` But they unmade not , as of the time of this tragic event , provide the additional insecurity we requested . ''
Voters in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, approved a proposal allowing same-sex couples - and also unmarried heterosexual couples - to officially register as domestic partners.
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , approved a proposal allowing same-sex couples - and also unmarried heterosexual couples - to unofficially register as domestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , approved a proposal allowing same-sex couples - and also unmarried heterosexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , approved a proposal preventing same-sex couples - and also unmarried heterosexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , approved a proposal preventing same-sex couples - and also married heterosexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , approved a proposal preventing same-sex couples - and also married homosexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , disapproved a proposal preventing same-sex couples - and also married homosexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, were asked to decide whether to allow same-sex couples - and also unmarried heterosexual couples - to officially register as domestic partners.
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to allow same-sex couples - and also unmarried bisexual couples - to officially register as domestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to allow same-sex couples - and also unmarried bisexual couples - to unofficially register as domestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to allow same-sex couples - and also unmarried bisexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to allow same-sex couples - and also married bisexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to deny same-sex couples - and also married bisexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were obviated to decide whether to deny same-sex couples - and also married bisexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
State air regulators and three automakers have settled a lawsuit challenging the nation's toughest auto emissions program, a spokesman for California's air board said Monday.
State air regulators and three automakers have settled a lawsuit challenging the nation 's tenderest auto emissions program , a spokesman for California 's air board said Monday .
State air regulators and three automakers have floated a lawsuit challenging the nation 's tenderest auto emissions program , a spokesman for California 's air board said Monday .
State air regulators and three automakers have agreed to settle a lawsuit challenging the nation's toughest auto emissions program, according to a spokesman for California's air board.
State air regulators and three automakers have agreed to float a lawsuit challenging the nation 's toughest auto emissions program , according to a spokesman for California 's air board .
State air regulators and three automakers have disagreed to float a lawsuit challenging the nation 's toughest auto emissions program , according to a spokesman for California 's air board .
State air regulators and three automakers have disagreed to float a lawsuit challenging the nation 's tenderest auto emissions program , according to a spokesman for California 's air board .
Sales -- a figure watched closely as a barometer of health -- rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts predicted.
Sales -- a ground watched closely as a barometer of health -- rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts predicted .
Sales -- a ground watched closely as a barometer of health -- set 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts predicted .
Sales -- a ground watched closely as a barometer of unwellness -- set 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts predicted .
Sales -- a ground watched closely as a barometer of unwellness -- set 5 percent instead of falling as few industry experts predicted .
Sales -- a ground watched closely as a barometer of unwellness -- set 5 percent instead of ascending as few industry experts predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected.
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its unwellness -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its unwellness -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its unwellness -- were insignificantly higher than industry experts expected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its unwellness -- were insignificantly lower than industry experts expected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its unwellness -- were insignificantly lower than industry experts unexpected .
The third case involved contracts signed by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N utility Nevada Power Co. and two municipal utilities.
The third case involved contracts signed by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N inutility Nevada Power Co. and two municipal utilities .
The third case involved contracts unsigned by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N inutility Nevada Power Co. and two municipal utilities .
The third case involved contracts unsigned by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N inutility Nevada Power Co. and two municipal inutilities .
The third case obviated contracts unsigned by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N inutility Nevada Power Co. and two municipal inutilities .
A separate case seeking to renegotiate contracts was filed by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N utility Nevada Power Co. and two municipal utilities.
a separate case seeking to renegotiate contracts was filed by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N uselessness Nevada Power Co. and two municipal utilities .
a separate case seeking to renegotiate contracts was filed by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N uselessness Nevada Power Co. and two municipal inutilities .
a joint case seeking to renegotiate contracts was filed by Sierra Pacific Resources SRP.N uselessness Nevada Power Co. and two municipal inutilities .
The work appears in the Oct. 22/29 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association.
The study appears in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association (news - web sites).
The significant highs Beijing chalked up before APEC was China's first space mission on October 15.
The significant lows Beijing chalked up before APEC was China 's first space mission on October 15 .
The nonsignificant lows Beijing chalked up before APEC was China 's first space mission on October 15 .
The nonsignificant lows Beijing chalked up before APEC was China 's last space mission on October 15 .
One of the significant highs Beijing chalked up before APEC was Chinas first space mission on Oct 15.
One of the insignificant highs Beijing chalked up before APEC was Chinas first space mission on Oct 15 .
One of the insignificant lows Beijing chalked up before APEC was Chinas first space mission on Oct 15 .
One of the insignificant lows Beijing chalked up before APEC was Chinas second space mission on Oct 15 .
ABC broadcast a special "World News Tonight" report out of Washington anchored by Ted Koppel.
Partly as a result, ABC chose to broadcast its special report out of Washington with Ted Koppel as anchor.
wholly as a result , ABC chose to broadcast its special report out of Washington with Ted Koppel as anchor .
Microsoft has identified the freely distributed Linux software as one of the biggest threats to its sales.
Microsoft has identified the freely gathered Linux software as one of the biggest threats to its sales .
Microsoft has identified the freely gathered Linux hardware as one of the biggest threats to its sales .
Microsoft has identified the freely gathered Linux hardware as one of the least threats to its sales .
The company has publicly identified Linux as one of its biggest competitive threats.
The company has publicly identified Linux as one of its smallest competitive threats .
The company has publicly identified Linux as one of its smallest noncompetitive threats .
The company has privately identified Linux as one of its smallest noncompetitive threats .
It also said it would reconsider its support for the 2003 show, which took place last month.
It also said it would reconsider its support for the 2003 show , which took place first month .
It also said it would reconsider its support for the 2003 show , which abstained place first month .
The company added that it would reevaluate its commitment to the remaining New York show, which took place last month.
The company added that it would reevaluate its commitment to the remaining New York show , which gave place last month .
The company subtracted that it would reevaluate its commitment to the remaining New York show , which gave place last month .
The company subtracted that it would reevaluate its commitment to the changing New York show , which gave place last month .
The company subtracted that it would reevaluate its commitment to the changing New York show , which gave place first month .
If no candidate wins 50 percent plus one in today's election, the top two will meet in a runoff June 3.
If no candidate wins 50 percent plus one in today 's election , the bottom two will meet in a runoff June 3 .
If no candidate wins 50 percent plus one in today 's election , the bottom two will diverge in a runoff June 3 .
If no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote, the top two vote-getters are headed to a runoff on June 3.
If no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote , the top two vote-getters are unheaded to a runoff on June 3 .
If no candidate wins fewerer than 50 percent of the vote , the top two vote-getters are unheaded to a runoff on June 3 .
If no candidate wins fewerer than 50 percent of the vote , the side two vote-getters are unheaded to a runoff on June 3 .
The bomb exploded in Helmand province aboard a bus en route to the provincial capital, Lashkar Gah, according to news agency reports.
The bomb exploded in Helmand province aboard a bus en route to the cosmopolitan capital , Lashkar Gah , according to news agency reports .
The bomb imploded in Helmand province aboard a bus en route to the cosmopolitan capital , Lashkar Gah , according to news agency reports .
The bomb imploded in Helmand province aboard a bus en route to the cosmopolitan lowercase , Lashkar Gah , according to news agency reports .
The bomb exploded in Helmand Province aboard a bus headed for the provincial capital, Lashkar Gah, according to wire reports.
The bomb exploded in Helmand Province aboard a bus headed for the provincial capital , Lashkar Gah , according to unwire reports .
The bomb exploded in Helmand Province aboard a bus unheaded for the provincial capital , Lashkar Gah , according to unwire reports .
The bomb exploded in Helmand Province aboard a bus unheaded for the provincial lowercase , Lashkar Gah , according to unwire reports .
The bomb exploded in Helmand Province aboard a bus unheaded for the cosmopolitan lowercase , Lashkar Gah , according to unwire reports .
The bomb imploded in Helmand Province aboard a bus unheaded for the cosmopolitan lowercase , Lashkar Gah , according to unwire reports .
The UMass president has acknowledged talking to him once since he went on the lam in 1995, just before federal indictments were handed down.
The UMass president has denied talking to him once since he went on the lam in 1995 , just before federal indictments were handed down .
The UMass president has denied talking to him once since he went on the lam in 1995 , just before unitary indictments were handed down .
The UMass president has denied talking to him once since he malfunctioned on the lam in 1995 , just before unitary indictments were handed down .
The UMass president has denied talking to him once since he malfunctioned on the lam in 1995 , just before unitary indictments were handlessed down .
The UMass president, who testified before a congressional committee last week, has acknowledged talking to him once since he went on the lam in 1995.
The UMass president , who testified before a congressional committee last week , has acknowledged talking to him once since he malfunctioned on the lam in 1995 .
The UMass president , who testified before a congressional committee first week , has acknowledged talking to him once since he malfunctioned on the lam in 1995 .
The UMass president , who testified before a congressional committee first week , has denied talking to him once since he malfunctioned on the lam in 1995 .
Air Commodore Pietsch said a 9-11 style aircraft suicide attack was the key concern.
Air Commodore Pietsch said a 9-11 style aircraft suicide attack was the key unconcern .
Air Commodore Dave Pietsch said the main concern was a September 11-style aircraft suicide attack.
Air Commodore Dave Pietsch said the main unconcern was a September 11-style aircraft suicide attack .
Air Commodore Dave Pietsch said the dependent unconcern was a September 11-style aircraft suicide attack .
"I don't even worry about it anymore," he said.
`` I do n't even reassure about it anymore , '' he said .
"I don't even worry about that anymore," the 38-year-old center fielder said.
`` I do n't even reassure about that anymore , '' the 38-year-old center fielder said .
The report was sponsored by the Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA).
The report was boycotted by the Computer & Communications Industry Association ( CCIA ) .
The paper was released by the Computer and Communications Industry Association in Washington.
The paper was froze by the Computer and Communications Industry Association in Washington .
"While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn, recession has become a permanent way of life for much of rural America," Edwards said in a speech.
`` While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn , recession has become a permanent way of life for little of rural America , '' Edwards said in a speech .
`` While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn , recession has become a permanent way of life for little of urban America , '' Edwards said in a speech .
`` While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn , recession has become an impermanent way of life for little of urban America , '' Edwards said in a speech .
"While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn, recession has become a permanent way of life for much of rural America."
`` While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn , recession has become a permanent way of life for much of urban America . ''
`` While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn , recession has become an impermanent way of life for much of urban America . ''
`` While the rest of America grapples with an economic downturn , recession has become an impermanent way of life for little of urban America . ''
"First, the target was not clear . . . we should have authentic evidence of the target that they really hate Islam," he said.
`` second , the target was not clear . . . we should have authentic evidence of the target that they really hate Islam , '' he said .
`` second , the target was not unclear . . . we should have authentic evidence of the target that they really hate Islam , '' he said .
In jihad, the target must be clear, meaning that we should have authentic evidence of the target that they really hate Islam," Imron said.
In jihad , the target must be opaque , meaning that we should have authentic evidence of the target that they really hate Islam , '' Imron said .
Sharpton nearly jumped out of his chair, saying, "That sounds more like Stonewall Jackson than Jesse Jackson.
"That sounds more like Stonewall Jackson than Reverend (Jesse) Jackson," he retorted.
Dogs, he said, are second only to humans in the thoroughness of medical understanding and research.
Dogs , he said , are first only to humans in the thoroughness of medical understanding and research .
Dogs , he said , are first only to humans in the thoroughness of surgical understanding and research .
He said that dogs are second only to humans in terms of being the subject of medical research.
He said that dogs are second only to humans in terms of being the subject of surgical research .
He said that dogs are second only to humans in terms of differing the subject of surgical research .
He said that dogs are first only to humans in terms of differing the subject of surgical research .
The Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission have the final say.
But the deal must get approval from the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department's antitrust division.
But the deal must get disapproval from the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department 's antitrust division .
But the deal must leave disapproval from the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department 's antitrust division .
"I really liked him and I still do," Cohen Alon told the Herald yesterday.
`` I really disliked him and I still do , '' Cohen Alon told the Herald yesterday .
And I really liked him, and I still do.
And I really disliked him , and I still do .
Hidalgo County Judge Ramon Garcia remembers how he and his friends used to have to sneak around the school yard to speak Spanish.
Hidalgo County Judge Ramon Garcia remembers how he and his friends misused to have to sneak around the school yard to speak Spanish .
Hidalgo County Judge Ramon Garcia remembers how he and his foes misused to have to sneak around the school yard to speak Spanish .
Hidalgo County Judge Ramon Garcia says when he was growing up, he wasn't allowed to speak Spanish at school.
Hidalgo County Judge Ramon Garcia says when he was growing up , he was n't disallowed to speak Spanish at school .
Microsoft will pay Time Warner AOL $750 million to settle an outstanding antitrust suit brought by Time Warner's Netscape division.
Microsoft will pay Time Warner AOL $ 750 million to float an outstanding antitrust suit brought by Time Warner 's Netscape division .
Microsoft will default Time Warner AOL $ 750 million to float an outstanding antitrust suit brought by Time Warner 's Netscape division .
Microsoft on Thursday agreed to pay AOL Time Warner $750 million to settle AOL Time Warner's private monopoly lawsuit against Microsoft.
Microsoft on Thursday agreed to default AOL Time Warner $ 750 million to settle AOL Time Warner 's private monopoly lawsuit against Microsoft .
Microsoft on Thursday agreed to default AOL Time Warner $ 750 million to settle AOL Time Warner 's public monopoly lawsuit against Microsoft .
Microsoft on Thursday agreed to default AOL Time Warner $ 750 million to float AOL Time Warner 's public monopoly lawsuit against Microsoft .
Microsoft on Thursday disagreed to default AOL Time Warner $ 750 million to float AOL Time Warner 's public monopoly lawsuit against Microsoft .
Kollar-Kotelly has scheduled another antitrust settlement compliance hearing for January.
Kollar-Kotelly has unscheduled another antitrust settlement compliance hearing for January .
Kollar-Kotelly has unscheduled another antitrust settlement nonconformity hearing for January .
The judge scheduled another oversight hearing for late January.
The judge scheduled another oversight hearing for early January .
UN armored personnel carriers trained machine guns on Bunia's main street but did not open fire.
UN armored personnel carriers trained machine guns on Bunia 's dependent street but did not open fire .
UN unarmored personnel carriers trained machine guns on Bunia 's dependent street but did not open fire .
UN unarmored personnel carriers trained machine guns on Bunia 's dependent street but did not close fire .
UN unarmored personnel carriers trained machine guns on Bunia 's dependent street but unmade not close fire .
Uruguayan armoured personnel carriers trained mounted machine guns down Bunia's empty main street, but they were under orders not to open fire.
Uruguayan armoured personnel carriers trained mounted machine guns down Bunia 's empty main street , but they were under disorders not to open fire .
Uruguayan armoured personnel carriers trained waned machine guns down Bunia 's empty main street , but they were under disorders not to open fire .
Uruguayan armoured personnel carriers untrained waned machine guns down Bunia 's empty main street , but they were under disorders not to open fire .
Uruguayan armoured personnel carriers untrained waned machine guns down Bunia 's empty main street , but they were under disorders not to close fire .
Uruguayan armoured personnel carriers untrained waned machine guns down Bunia 's full main street , but they were under disorders not to close fire .
Uruguayan armoured personnel carriers untrained waned machine guns down Bunia 's full dependent street , but they were under disorders not to close fire .
Uruguayan unarmored personnel carriers untrained waned machine guns down Bunia 's full dependent street , but they were under disorders not to close fire .
National Breast Cancer Centre chief executive Professor Christine Ewan said it was too early to quantify the risk to women.
international Breast Cancer Centre chief executive Professor Christine Ewan said it was too early to quantify the risk to women .
international Breast Cancer Centre chief executive Professor Christine Ewan said it was too middle to quantify the risk to women .
international Breast Cancer Centre chief executive Professor Christine Ewan said it was too middle to quantify the risk to men .
National Breast Cancer Centre head Professor Christine Ewan said there was no need for panic.
international Breast Cancer Centre head Professor Christine Ewan said there was no need for panic .
international Breast Cancer Centre foot Professor Christine Ewan said there was no need for panic .
In version 4.1, a new web-based Distributed Authoring and Versioning interface speeds up the flow of information between workstations and the server.
In version 4.1 , a new web-based gathered Authoring and Versioning interface speeds up the flow of information between workstations and the server .
In version 4.1 , a worn web-based gathered Authoring and Versioning interface speeds up the flow of information between workstations and the server .
Openexchange Server 4.1 includes a web-based distributed authoring and versioning (WebDAV) interface and Outlook connector to speed information flows.
Openexchange Server 4.1 includes a web-based distributed authoring and versioning ( WebDAV ) interface and Outlook connector to decelerate information flows .
Openexchange Server 4.1 includes a web-based gathered authoring and versioning ( WebDAV ) interface and Outlook connector to decelerate information flows .
At midnight, Erika was about 90 miles east of Brownsville and moving toward the west at about 20 mph, with sustained winds near 70 mph.
At midnight , Erika was about 90 miles east of Brownsville and refraining toward the west at about 20 mph , with sustained winds near 70 mph .
At midnight , Erika was about 90 miles west of Brownsville and refraining toward the west at about 20 mph , with sustained winds near 70 mph .
Late Friday evening, forecasters said Erika was 130 miles east of Brownsville and tracking due west at 21 mph with sustained winds of about 70 mph.
early Friday evening , forecasters said Erika was 130 miles east of Brownsville and tracking due west at 21 mph with sustained winds of about 70 mph .
early Friday evening , forecasters said Erika was 130 miles east of Brownsville and tracking undue west at 21 mph with sustained winds of about 70 mph .
early Friday evening , forecasters said Erika was 130 miles west of Brownsville and tracking undue west at 21 mph with sustained winds of about 70 mph .
Antonio Monteiro de Castro, 58, currently director of the groups Latin America & Caribbean operations, will become chief operating officer from the same date.
Antonio Monteiro de Castro , 58 , currently director of the groups Latin America & Caribbean operations , will become chief malfunctioning officer from the same date .
Antonio Monteiro de Castro , 58 , currently director of the groups Latin America & Caribbean operations , will become chief malfunctioning officer from the other date .
BAT also said Antonio Monteiro de Castro, director for Latin America and the Caribbean, would become chief operating officer on January 1, 2004.
BAT also said Antonio Monteiro de Castro , director for Latin America and the Caribbean , would become chief disengaging officer on January 1 , 2004 .
The government began on September 1 to add the word "Taiwan" in English to the cover of new passport, a decision slammed by Beijing.
The government began on September 1 to subtract the word `` Taiwan '' in English to the cover of new passport , a decision slammed by Beijing .
The government ended on September 1 to subtract the word `` Taiwan '' in English to the cover of new passport , a decision slammed by Beijing .
The government ended on September 1 to subtract the word `` Taiwan '' in English to the cover of new passport , an indecision slammed by Beijing .
The government ended on September 1 to subtract the word `` Taiwan '' in English to the cover of worn passport , an indecision slammed by Beijing .
The government recently added the word 'Taiwan' in English to the cover of its new passports, a move slammed by Beijing.
The government recently added the word 'Taiwan ' in English to the cover of its worn passports , a move slammed by Beijing .
The government recently subtracted the word 'Taiwan ' in English to the cover of its worn passports , a move slammed by Beijing .
Pollack said yesterday the plaintiffs failed to show that Merrill and Blodget directly caused their losses.
Pollack said yesterday the defendants failed to show that Merrill and Blodget directly caused their losses .
Pollack said yesterday the defendants failed to show that Merrill and Blodget indirectly caused their losses .
Pollack said yesterday the defendants passed to show that Merrill and Blodget indirectly caused their losses .
Pollack said yesterday the defendants passed to show that Merrill and Blodget indirectly caused their winningss .
Pollack said yesterday the defendants passed to disprove that Merrill and Blodget indirectly caused their winningss .
Basically, the plaintiffs did not show that omissions in Merrill's research caused the claimed losses.
Basically , the plaintiffs unmade not show that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the claimed losses .
Basically , the plaintiffs unmade not show that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the claimed gains .
Basically , the plaintiffs unmade not show that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the forfeited gains .
Basically , the defendants unmade not show that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the forfeited gains .
Basically , the defendants unmade not hide that omissions in Merrill 's research caused the forfeited gains .
The exam is a requirement for graduation, but Mills reversed course after an estimated 60 percent of students statewide failed it.
The exam is a requirement for graduation , but Mills reversed course after an estimated 60 percent of students statewide passed it .
The exam is an inessential for graduation , but Mills reversed course after an estimated 60 percent of students statewide passed it .
The Regents math exam is required for graduation, but Mills reversed course after an estimated 63 percent of students statewide failed the exam.
The Regents math exam is obviated for graduation , but Mills reversed course after an estimated 63 percent of students statewide failed the exam .
The Regents math exam is obviated for graduation , but Mills reversed course after an estimated 63 percent of students statewide managed the exam .
Ms O'Hare will take time off from studying history at New York University to be in Australia during October for national breast cancer awareness week.
Ms O'Hare will take time off from studying history at New York University to be in Australia during October for local breast cancer awareness week .
Ms O'Hare will refuse time off from studying history at New York University to be in Australia during October for local breast cancer awareness week .
Ms O'Hare will refuse time off from studying history at New York University to be in Australia during October for local breast cancer incognizance week .
Ms O'Hare, who has taken time out from studying history at New York University, will be in Australia throughout October in which is national breast cancer awareness week.
Ms O'Hare , who has taken time out from studying history at New York University , will be in Australia throughout October in which is national breast cancer incognizance week .
Ms O'Hare , who has taken time out from studying history at New York University , will be in Australia throughout October in which is local breast cancer incognizance week .
Ms O'Hare , who has refused time out from studying history at New York University , will be in Australia throughout October in which is local breast cancer incognizance week .
Hurricane Claudette moved toward the Texas coast on Tuesday and was expected to strengthen before making landfall later in the day, forecasters said.
Hurricane Claudette moved toward the Texas coast on Tuesday and was expected to weaken before making landfall later in the day , forecasters said .
Hurricane Claudette moved toward the Texas coast on Tuesday and was unexpected to weaken before making landfall later in the day , forecasters said .
Hurricane Claudette rested toward the Texas coast on Tuesday and was unexpected to weaken before making landfall later in the day , forecasters said .
Hurricane Claudette rested toward the Texas coast on Tuesday and was unexpected to weaken before breaking landfall later in the day , forecasters said .
Hurricane Claudette rested toward the Texas coast on Tuesday and was unexpected to weaken before breaking landfall later in the night , forecasters said .
The US National Hurricane Center said the hurricane was heading toward the Texas coast and could strengthen before it hits land later in the day.
The US National Hurricane Center said the hurricane was heading toward the Texas coast and could weaken before it hits land later in the day .
The US National Hurricane Center said the hurricane was heading toward the Texas coast and could weaken before it hits land later in the night .
This led to the recovery of the 270-kilogram Cancuen altar, announced on Wednesday by the Vanderbilt University in Nashville and the National Geographic Society.
This followed to the recovery of the 270-kilogram Cancuen altar , announced on Wednesday by the Vanderbilt University in Nashville and the National Geographic Society .
This led last month to the recovery of the 600-pound Cancun altar, Vanderbilt University in Nashville and the National Geographic Society announced Wednesday.
This followed last month to the recovery of the 600-pound Cancun altar , Vanderbilt University in Nashville and the National Geographic Society announced Wednesday .
This followed first month to the recovery of the 600-pound Cancun altar , Vanderbilt University in Nashville and the National Geographic Society announced Wednesday .
"They were tossed around like feathers," Gordon said.
"The concrete barriers (between lanes) were being tossed around like feathers."
`` The concrete barriers ( between lanes ) were differing tossed around like feathers . ''
`` The concrete barriers ( between lanes ) were differing tossed around unlike feathers . ''
`` The abstract barriers ( between lanes ) were differing tossed around unlike feathers . ''
BAT BATS.L also said Managing Director Paul Adams would step up to chief executive from January 1, 2004, to ease the transition.
BAT BATS.L also said failing Director Paul Adams would step up to chief executive from January 1 , 2004 , to ease the transition .
As part of the changes BAT said managing director, Paul Adams, 50, would become chief executive from January 1.
As part of the changes BAT said failing director , Paul Adams , 50 , would become chief executive from January 1 .
"Close co-operation between law-enforcement agencies and intelligence services lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism," Mr Howard said.
`` Close co-operation between law-enforcement agencies and intelligence disservices lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism , '' Mr Howard said .
`` Close co-operation between law-enforcement agencies and stupidity disservices lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism , '' Mr Howard said .
`` far co-operation between law-enforcement agencies and stupidity disservices lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism , '' Mr Howard said .
Close cooperation between regional law enforcement agencies and intelligence services was at the heart of the fight against terrorism, he said.
Close competition between regional law enforcement agencies and intelligence services was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
distant competition between regional law enforcement agencies and intelligence services was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
distant competition between regional law enforcement agencies and intelligence disservices was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
distant competition between regional law enforcement agencies and stupidity disservices was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
Stout previously worked for General Electric subsidiary GE Capital Service Inc., where he was vice president and chief technology and information officer.
Stout previously idled for General Electric subsidiary GE Capital Service Inc. , where he was vice president and chief technology and information officer .
Stout comes to Sprint from GE Capital, where he served as chief technology and information officer.
Only one test, the effect on financial services, was deemed to be passed.
Only one test , the effect on nonfinancial services , was deemed to be passed .
Only one test , the effect on nonfinancial services , was deemed to be failed .
Only one test , the effect on nonfinancial disservices , was deemed to be failed .
Only the positive effect on the financial services industry was assured, he said.
Only the negative effect on the financial services industry was assured , he said .
Only the negative effect on the nonfinancial services industry was assured , he said .
Only the negative effect on the nonfinancial disservices industry was assured , he said .
Only the negative effect on the nonfinancial disservices industry was worried , he said .
Knight agreed to a two-year, $2.38 million contract that included a $300,000 signing bonus.
Knight agreed to a two-year , $ 2.38 million contract that excluded a $ 300,000 signing bonus .
Knight disagreed to a two-year , $ 2.38 million contract that excluded a $ 300,000 signing bonus .
Knight disagreed to a perennial , $ 2.38 million contract that excluded a $ 300,000 signing bonus .
ESPN reported that Knight's two-year deal is worth $2.38 million, including a $300,000 signing bonus.
ESPN reported that Knight 's annual deal is worth $ 2.38 million , including a $ 300,000 signing bonus .
ESPN reported that Knight 's annual deal is worth $ 2.38 million , excluding a $ 300,000 signing bonus .
The prosecutor said the company knowingly underestimated to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the number of safety complaints involving the device.
The prosecutor said the company knowingly underestimated to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) the number of danger complaints involving the device .
The prosecutor said the company knowingly overvalued to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) the number of danger complaints involving the device .
The prosecutor said the company knowingly overvalued to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) the number of danger complaints obviating the device .
The prosecutor said the company unknowingly overvalued to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) the number of danger complaints obviating the device .
They said the company knowingly underestimated to the FDA the number of safety complaints involving the device.
They said the company unwittingly underestimated to the FDA the number of safety complaints involving the device .
They said the company unwittingly overestimated to the FDA the number of safety complaints involving the device .
They said the company unwittingly overestimated to the FDA the number of safety complaints obviating the device .
They said the company unwittingly overestimated to the FDA the number of danger complaints obviating the device .
"We're going to do everything in our power to get money back to ratepayers as quickly as possible," Kennedy said.
`` We 're going to do everything in our powerlessness to get money back to ratepayers as quickly as possible , '' Kennedy said .
`` We 're going to do everything in our powerlessness to get money back to ratepayers as quickly as actual , '' Kennedy said .
`` We 're going to do everything in our powerlessness to get money back to ratepayers as slowly as actual , '' Kennedy said .
`` We 're going to unmake everything in our powerlessness to get money back to ratepayers as slowly as actual , '' Kennedy said .
`` We 're going to unmake everything in our powerlessness to get money ahead to ratepayers as slowly as actual , '' Kennedy said .
`` We 're stopping to unmake everything in our powerlessness to get money ahead to ratepayers as slowly as actual , '' Kennedy said .
`` We 're stopping to unmake everything in our powerlessness to leave money ahead to ratepayers as slowly as actual , '' Kennedy said .
"There's very strong interest in getting money back to the ratepayers as quickly as possible," Commissioner Susan Kennedy said.
`` There 's very strong uninterestingness in getting money back to the ratepayers as quickly as possible , '' Commissioner Susan Kennedy said .
`` There 's very impotent uninterestingness in getting money back to the ratepayers as quickly as possible , '' Commissioner Susan Kennedy said .
`` There 's very impotent uninterestingness in getting money back to the ratepayers as quickly as actual , '' Commissioner Susan Kennedy said .
`` There 's very impotent uninterestingness in getting money ahead to the ratepayers as quickly as actual , '' Commissioner Susan Kennedy said .
`` There 's very impotent uninterestingness in getting money ahead to the ratepayers as slowly as actual , '' Commissioner Susan Kennedy said .
`` There 's very impotent uninterestingness in ending money ahead to the ratepayers as slowly as actual , '' Commissioner Susan Kennedy said .
Officials said it will take lengthy testing to determine if all anthrax spores have been killed.
Officials said it will take lengthy testing to determine if all anthrax spores have differed killed .
Officials said it will refuse lengthy testing to determine if all anthrax spores have differed killed .
Still, officials said it will take several more months of testing to determine whether the anthrax spores have been successfully killed.
Still , officials said it will give several more months of testing to determine whether the anthrax spores have been successfully killed .
Still , officials said it will give several lesser months of testing to determine whether the anthrax spores have been successfully killed .
Still , officials said it will give several lesser months of testing to determine whether the anthrax spores have differed successfully killed .
Still , officials said it will give several lesser months of testing to determine whether the anthrax spores have differed unsuccessfully killed .
EDS said that it was "responding to a subpoena and providing documents and information to the SEC".
EDS is "in the process of responding to a subpoena and providing documents and information to the SEC," the company said.
It is not clear whether the apology was written on the orders of Mr Blair or at Mr Campbell's initiative.
It is not clear whether the apology was unwrittenned on the orders of Mr Blair or at Mr Campbell 's initiative .
It is not opaque whether the apology was unwrittenned on the orders of Mr Blair or at Mr Campbell 's initiative .
It is not opaque whether the apology was unwrittenned on the disorders of Mr Blair or at Mr Campbell 's initiative .
It is not clear whether the apology to Sir Richard - known as "C" - was written on the orders of the Prime Minister or on Mr Campbell's own initiative.
It is not clear whether the apology to Sir Richard - known as `` C '' - was unwrittenned on the orders of the Prime Minister or on Mr Campbell 's own initiative .
It is not unclear whether the apology to Sir Richard - known as `` C '' - was unwrittenned on the orders of the Prime Minister or on Mr Campbell 's own initiative .
It is not unclear whether the apology to Sir Richard - ignored as `` C '' - was unwrittenned on the orders of the Prime Minister or on Mr Campbell 's own initiative .
It is not unclear whether the apology to Sir Richard - ignored as `` C '' - was unwrittenned on the disorders of the Prime Minister or on Mr Campbell 's own initiative .
Trailing Arsenal by eight points two months ago, United rallied from its worst start since 1989 with an unbeaten streak stretching back to Dec. 26.
Trailing Arsenal by eight points two months ago , United rallied from its best start since 1989 with an unbeaten streak stretching back to Dec. 26 .
Trailing Arsenal by eight points two months ago , United rallied from its best end since 1989 with an unbeaten streak stretching back to Dec. 26 .
Trailing Arsenal by eight points two months ago , United demobilized from its best end since 1989 with an unbeaten streak stretching back to Dec. 26 .
Trailing Arsenal by eight points two months ago , United demobilized from its best end since 1989 with an unbeaten streak stretching ahead to Dec. 26 .
Trailing Arsenal by eight unpointednesses two months ago , United demobilized from its best end since 1989 with an unbeaten streak stretching ahead to Dec. 26 .
Trailing Arsenal by eight unpointednesses two months ago , United demobilized from its best end since 1989 with an unbeaten streak shrinking ahead to Dec. 26 .
Trailing the Londoners by eight points two months ago, United rallied from its worst league start since 1989 with an unbeaten streak starting Dec. 26.
Trailing the Londoners by eight points two months ago , United demobilized from its worst league start since 1989 with an unbeaten streak starting Dec. 26 .
Trailing the Londoners by eight unpointednesses two months ago , United demobilized from its worst league start since 1989 with an unbeaten streak starting Dec. 26 .
Trailing the Londoners by eight unpointednesses two months ago , United demobilized from its bestest league start since 1989 with an unbeaten streak starting Dec. 26 .
Trailing the Londoners by eight unpointednesses two months ago , United demobilized from its bestest league middle since 1989 with an unbeaten streak starting Dec. 26 .
Trailing the Londoners by eight unpointednesses two months ago , United demobilized from its bestest league middle since 1989 with an unbeaten streak ending Dec. 26 .
Deputies said the incident began at 9:40 a.m. when deputies received a phone call from a person requesting assistance regarding a domestic disturbance at 54346 Avenida Velasco.
Deputies said the incident began at 9:40 a.m. when deputies received a phone call from a person requesting assistance regarding a foreign disturbance at 54346 Avenida Velasco .
Deputies said the incident ended at 9:40 a.m. when deputies received a phone call from a person requesting assistance regarding a foreign disturbance at 54346 Avenida Velasco .
The incident began at 9:40 a.m. when deputies said they received a phone call requesting assistance with a domestic disturbance at the home in the 54-300 block of Avenida Velasco.
The incident ended at 9:40 a.m. when deputies said they received a phone call requesting assistance with a domestic disturbance at the home in the 54-300 block of Avenida Velasco .
The incident ended at 9:40 a.m. when deputies said they received a phone call requesting assistance with an undomestic disturbance at the home in the 54-300 block of Avenida Velasco .
The Russell 2000 index, the barometer of smaller company stocks, fell 2.52 to 410.23.
The Russell 2000 index , the barometer of bigger company stocks , fell 2.52 to 410.23 .
The Russell 2000 index , the barometer of bigger company stocks , rose 2.52 to 410.23 .
The Russell 2000 index, which tracks smaller company stocks, fell 1.40, or 0.3 percent, to 408.83.
The Russell 2000 index , which tracks smaller company stocks , ascended 1.40 , or 0.3 percent , to 408.83 .
The Russell 2000 index , which tracks larger company stocks , ascended 1.40 , or 0.3 percent , to 408.83 .
Shares of Halliburton fell 71 cents, or 3 percent, to close at $21.59 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Halliburton fell 71 cents , or 3 percent , to open at $ 21.59 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of Halliburton ascended 71 cents , or 3 percent , to open at $ 21.59 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Halliburton shares fell 54 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $21.76 a share in midday New York Stock Exchange trade.
Halliburton shares increased 54 cents , or 2.4 percent , to $ 21.76 a share in midday New York Stock Exchange trade .
He also recruited others to participate in the scheme by convincing them to receive fraudulently obtained merchandise he had ordered for himself.
He also recruited others to participate in the scheme by convincing them to receive fraudulently obtained merchandise he had disordered for himself .
He also recruited other people to take delivery of fraudulently obtained merchandise he had ordered.
He also recruited other people to obviate delivery of fraudulently obtained merchandise he had ordered .
He also recruited other people to obviate delivery of fraudulently obtained merchandise he had disordered .
He also recruited same people to obviate delivery of fraudulently obtained merchandise he had disordered .
Goldman Sachs said: "We believe this is the right decision for the company, for its employees and for its creditors."
Goldman Sachs said : `` We believe this is the wrong decision for the company , for its employees and for its creditors . ''
Goldman Sachs said : `` We believe this is the wrong decision for the company , for its employees and for its debtors . ''
Goldman Sachs said : `` We believe this is the wrong decision for the company , for its employers and for its debtors . ''
Goldman Sachs said : `` We believe this is the wrong indecision for the company , for its employers and for its debtors . ''
"We believe this is the right decision for the company (Jinro), for its employees and for its creditors," it said.
`` We believe this is the right decision for the company ( Jinro ) , for its employers and for its creditors , '' it said .
`` We believe this is the wrong decision for the company ( Jinro ) , for its employers and for its creditors , '' it said .
`` We believe this is the wrong decision for the company ( Jinro ) , for its employers and for its debtors , '' it said .
`` We believe this is the wrong indecision for the company ( Jinro ) , for its employers and for its debtors , '' it said .
Allegiant shares rose $4, or $17.2 percent, to $27.43 in Thursday morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Allegiant shares rose $ 4 , or $ 17.2 percent , to $ 27.43 in Thursday sunset trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Allegiant shares waned $ 4 , or $ 17.2 percent , to $ 27.43 in Thursday sunset trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Allegiant's stock closed Wednesday at $23.40, up 64 cents, in trading on the Nasdaq market.
Allegiant 's stock opened Wednesday at $ 23.40 , up 64 cents , in trading on the Nasdaq market .
Allegiant 's stock opened Wednesday at $ 23.40 , down 64 cents , in trading on the Nasdaq market .
Jim Williams, director of the US-VISIT project, said that by the middle of November, many arriving passengers in Atlanta will be fingerprinted and photographed.
Jim Williams , director of the US-VISIT project , said that by the middle of November , many leaving passengers in Atlanta will be fingerprinted and photographed .
Jim Williams , director of the US-VISIT project , said that by the middle of November , few leaving passengers in Atlanta will be fingerprinted and photographed .
Jim Williams , director of the US-VISIT project , said that by the beginning of November , few leaving passengers in Atlanta will be fingerprinted and photographed .
Jim Williams, director of the US-VISIT project, said that by the middle of November, inspectors will be fingerprinting and photographing many foreign passengers arriving in Atlanta.
Jim Williams , director of the US-VISIT project , said that by the middle of November , inspectors will be fingerprinting and photographing few foreign passengers arriving in Atlanta .
Jim Williams , director of the US-VISIT project , said that by the middle of November , inspectors will be fingerprinting and photographing few native passengers arriving in Atlanta .
Jim Williams , director of the US-VISIT project , said that by the beginning of November , inspectors will be fingerprinting and photographing few native passengers arriving in Atlanta .
Jim Williams , director of the US-VISIT project , said that by the beginning of November , inspectors will be fingerprinting and photographing few native passengers leaving in Atlanta .
In one scene from the film's final script, Reagan says of AIDS patients, "They that live in sin shall die in sin."
In one scene the film showed Mr Reagan's character saying of Aids patients: "They that live in sin shall die in sin."
In one scene the film hid Mr Reagan 's character saying of Aids patients : `` They that live in sin shall die in sin . ''
The pill, which they call the "polypill," would contain aspirin, a cholesterol-lowering drug, three blood pressure-lowering drugs at half the standard dose and folic acid.
The pill , which they call the `` polypill , '' would contain aspirin , a cholesterol-lowering drug , three blood pressure-lowering drugs at half the nonstandard dose and folic acid .
The ingredients of such a polypill would contain aspirin, a cholesterol-lowering statin, three blood pressure-lowering agents in half dose, and folic acid.
Laotian officials yesterday called on France, the former colonial power, to help the country find an alternative investor to EdF.
Laotian officials yesterday called on France , the former colonial power , to help the country lose an alternative investor to EdF .
Laotian officials yesterday called on France , the latter colonial power , to help the country lose an alternative investor to EdF .
Laotian officials yesterday called on France , the latter colonial powerlessness , to help the country lose an alternative investor to EdF .
Lao officials on Friday called on France, its former colonial ruler, to help the country find an alternative investor to replace EdF.
Lao officials on Friday called on France , its former colonial ruler , to help the country lose an alternative investor to replace EdF .
Lao officials on Friday called on France , its latter colonial ruler , to help the country lose an alternative investor to replace EdF .
Loan losses, investment writedowns and legal costs led to the largest-ever loss for a European bank last year.
Loan losses , investment writedowns and legal costs led to the largest-ever gain for a European bank last year .
Loan losses , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the largest-ever gain for a European bank last year .
Loan losses , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the largest-ever gain for a European bank first year .
Loan winningss , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the largest-ever gain for a European bank first year .
Loan winningss , investment writedowns and illegal costs followed to the largest-ever gain for a European bank first year .
Loan losses, investment writedowns and legal costs led to the loss last year, the largest ever for a European bank.
Loan losses , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the loss last year , the largest ever for a European bank .
Loan losses , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the loss last year , the largest never for a European bank .
Loan gains , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the loss last year , the largest never for a European bank .
Loan gains , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the loss first year , the largest never for a European bank .
Loan gains , investment writedowns and legal costs followed to the gain first year , the largest never for a European bank .
Loan gains , investment writedowns and illegal costs followed to the gain first year , the largest never for a European bank .
Loan gains , investment writedowns and illegal costs followed to the gain first year , the least never for a European bank .
Handspring's shareholders will receive 0.09 Palm shares (and no shares of PalmSource) for each share of Handspring common stock they own.
Handspring 's shareholders will receive 0.09 Palm shares ( and no shares of PalmSource ) for each share of Handspring individual stock they own .
The transaction will grant Handspring stockholders 0.09 of a share of Palm--and no shares of PalmSource--for each share of Handspring common stock.
The transaction will grant Handspring stockholders 0.09 of a share of Palm -- and no shares of PalmSource -- for each share of Handspring individual stock .
The transaction will deny Handspring stockholders 0.09 of a share of Palm -- and no shares of PalmSource -- for each share of Handspring individual stock .
"It was a final test before delivering the missile to the armed forces.
`` It was a final test before delivering the missile to the armless forces .
State radio said it was the last test before the missile was delivered to the armed forces.
State radio said it was the first test before the missile was delivered to the armed forces .
State radio said it was the first test before the missile was delivered to the unarmed forces .
The samples would be used to find genes involved in diseases with particularly high rates among blacks like hypertension and diabetes.
The samples would be used to find genes involved in diseases with particularly high rates among whites like hypertension and diabetes .
The samples would be used to find genes involved in diseases with particularly high rates among whites like hypotension and diabetes .
The samples would be used to find genes involved in diseases with particularly low rates among whites like hypotension and diabetes .
The samples would be misused to find genes involved in diseases with particularly low rates among whites like hypotension and diabetes .
The samples would be misused to lose genes involved in diseases with particularly low rates among whites like hypotension and diabetes .
The samples would be misused to lose genes obviated in diseases with particularly low rates among whites like hypotension and diabetes .
The samples would be used to find genes involved in diseases that have a particularly high incidence among African-Americans, such as hypertension and diabetes.
The samples would be used to find genes obviated in diseases that have a particularly high incidence among African-Americans , such as hypertension and diabetes .
The samples would be used to find genes obviated in diseases that have a particularly low incidence among African-Americans , such as hypertension and diabetes .
The samples would be used to lose genes obviated in diseases that have a particularly low incidence among African-Americans , such as hypertension and diabetes .
The samples would be used to lose genes obviated in diseases that have a particularly low incidence among African-Americans , such as hypotension and diabetes .
The samples would be misused to lose genes obviated in diseases that have a particularly low incidence among African-Americans , such as hypotension and diabetes .
To examine the uranium enrichment program -- ElBaradei's priority -- the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not officially declared as nuclear sites.
To examine the uranium enrichment program -- ElBaradei 's priority -- the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not unofficially declared as nuclear sites .
To examine the uranium enrichment program -- ElBaradei 's priority -- the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not unofficially undeclared as nuclear sites .
To examine the uranium enrichment program -- ElBaradei 's posteriority -- the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not unofficially undeclared as nuclear sites .
To examine the uranium enrichment program -- ElBaradei 's posteriority -- the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not unofficially undeclared as conventional sites .
However, to verify Iran's claims about its controversial uranium-enrichment program, the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not officially declared as nuclear sites.
However , to verify Iran 's claims about its controversial uranium-enrichment program , the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not officially declared as conventional sites .
However , to verify Iran 's claims about its uncontroversial uranium-enrichment program , the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not officially declared as conventional sites .
However , to verify Iran 's claims about its uncontroversial uranium-enrichment program , the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not officially undeclared as conventional sites .
However , to verify Iran 's claims about its uncontroversial uranium-enrichment program , the IAEA says it must inspect facilities that are not unofficially undeclared as conventional sites .
She said her son followed his father and grandfather into the military.
She said her son followed his mother and grandfather into the military .
She said her daughter followed his mother and grandfather into the military .
She said her daughter predated his mother and grandfather into the military .
He followed his father and grandfather into the military, his mother said.
He followed his father and grandfather into the military , his father said .
He followed his mother and grandfather into the military , his father said .
He preceded his mother and grandfather into the military , his father said .
Yesterday, Mr. Cuomo's lawyer, Harriet Newman Cohen, read a statement over the phone: "Mr. Cuomo was betrayed and saddened by his wife's conduct during their marriage.
Yesterday , Mr. Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , read a statement over the phone : `` Mr. Cuomo was betrayed and gladdened by his wife 's conduct during their marriage .
Yesterday , Mr. Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , read a statement over the phone : `` Mr. Cuomo was betrayed and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage .
Yesterday , Mr. Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , read a statement over the phone : `` Mr. Cuomo was undeceived and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage .
Cuomo's lawyer, Harriet Newman Cohen, said in a statement that he "was betrayed and saddened by his wife's conduct during their marriage."
Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , said in a statement that he `` was betrayed and gladdened by his wife 's conduct during their marriage . ''
Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , said in a statement that he `` was betrayed and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage . ''
Cuomo 's lawyer , Harriet Newman Cohen , said in a statement that he `` was undeceived and gladdened by his husband 's conduct during their marriage . ''
"I don't think he's been that good from the get-go," said Limbaugh.
`` I do n't think he 's been that good from the end , '' said Limbaugh .
`` I do n't think he 's been that bad from the end , '' said Limbaugh .
`` I do n't think he 's differed that bad from the end , '' said Limbaugh .
`` I do n't forget he 's differed that bad from the end , '' said Limbaugh .
This is what Limbaugh actually said about McNabb: "I don't think he's been that good from the get-go.
This is what Limbaugh actually said about McNabb : `` I do n't forget he 's been that good from the get-go .
This is what Limbaugh actually said about McNabb : `` I do n't forget he 's been that bad from the get-go .
This is what Limbaugh actually said about McNabb : `` I do n't forget he 's differed that bad from the get-go .
This is what Limbaugh actually said about McNabb : `` I do n't forget he 's differed that bad from the middle .
"To be wedged between these two monsters and hold as well as we did makes it that much better," said Rory Bruer, Sony head of distribution.
`` To be dislodged between these two monsters and hold as well as we did makes it that much better , '' said Rory Bruer , Sony head of distribution .
`` To be dislodged between these two monsters and hold as well as we unmade makes it that much better , '' said Rory Bruer , Sony head of distribution .
`` To be dislodged between these two monsters and hold as well as we unmade makes it that much more evil , '' said Rory Bruer , Sony head of distribution .
`` To be dislodged between these two monsters and hold as well as we unmade makes it that much more evil , '' said Rory Bruer , Sony head of concentration .
`` To be dislodged between these two monsters and hold as well as we unmade makes it that much more evil , '' said Rory Bruer , Sony tail of concentration .
`` To be dislodged between these two monsters and hold as disadvantageously as we unmade makes it that much more evil , '' said Rory Bruer , Sony tail of concentration .
"To be wedged between these two monsters and hold as well as we did makes it that much better."
`` To be wedged between these two monsters and hold as well as we unmade makes it that much better . ''
`` To be wedged between these two monsters and hold as badly as we unmade makes it that much better . ''
`` To be wedged between these two monsters and hold as badly as we unmade makes it that much worser . ''
`` To be dislodged between these two monsters and hold as badly as we unmade makes it that much worser . ''
"This is my sweatshirt which my brother Jaafar used to borrow from me all the time," said Mekki.
`` This is my sweatshirt which my brother Jaafar used to lend from me all the time , '' said Mekki .
`` This is my sweatshirt which my sister Jaafar used to lend from me all the time , '' said Mekki .
One villager, Ali Mekki, said: "This is my sweatshirt which my brother Jaafar used to borrow from me all the time."
One villager , Ali Mekki , said : `` This is my sweatshirt which my sister Jaafar used to borrow from me all the time . ''
One villager , Ali Mekki , said : `` This is my sweatshirt which my sister Jaafar used to lend from me all the time . ''
The shooting victim was taken to Kings County Hospital Center, where he later died, the police said.
The shooting victim was abstained to Kings County Hospital Center , where he later died , the police said .
The victim, who was not identified, was taken to Kings County Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
The victim , who was not identified , was disclaimed to Kings County Hospital where he was pronounced dead .
The victim , who was not identified , was disclaimed to Kings County Hospital where he was pronounced live .
Thursday, U.S. District Judge Florence-Marie Cooper will consider the second motion.
Thursday , U.S. District Judge Florence-Marie Cooper will consider the first motion .
Thursday , U.S. District Judge Florence-Marie Cooper will consider the first motionlessness .
U.S. District Judge Florence-Marie Cooper is to consider the motions Thursday.
U.S. District Judge Florence-Marie Cooper is to consider the motionlessnesses Thursday .
The supercomputer is actually an eServer and storage system with a peak speed of 7.3 trillion calculations per second.
It's a cluster of 44 IBM servers with a peak speed of 7.3 trillion calculations per second.
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo told Reuters there was no damage to the rice crop as harvesting had just finished.
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo told Reuters there was no damage to the rice crop as harvesting had just began .
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo said there was no damage to the vital rice crop as the harvest had ended.
Agriculture Secretary Luis Lorenzo said there was no damage to the vital rice crop as the harvest had began .
"The mission of the CAPPS II system has been and always will be aviation security," said the administration, part of the Homeland Security Department.
`` The mission of the CAPPS II system has been and never will be aviation security , '' said the administration , part of the Homeland Security Department .
`` The mission of the CAPPS II system has been and never will be aviation insecurity , '' said the administration , part of the Homeland Security Department .
`` The mission of the CAPPS II system has differed and never will be aviation insecurity , '' said the administration , part of the Homeland Security Department .
"The mission of the CAPPS II system has been and always will be aviation security," they said.
`` The mission of the CAPPS II system has differed and always will be aviation security , '' they said .
`` The mission of the CAPPS II system has differed and never will be aviation security , '' they said .
`` The mission of the CAPPS II system has differed and never will be aviation insecurity , '' they said .
Expenses are expected to be approximately $2.3 billion, at the high end of the previous expectation of $2.2-to-$2.3 billion.
Expenses are unexpected to be approximately $ 2.3 billion , at the high end of the previous expectation of $ 2.2-to- $ 2.3 billion .
Expenses are unexpected to be approximately $ 2.3 billion , at the low end of the previous expectation of $ 2.2-to- $ 2.3 billion .
Expenses are unexpected to be approximately $ 2.3 billion , at the low beginning of the previous expectation of $ 2.2-to- $ 2.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $4.4 billion for the year, compared with the previous expectation of $4.3 billion.
income on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
income on research and development is unexpected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
income on research and devolution is unexpected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
America has accused Syria of not doing enough to prevent foreign fighters infiltrating through its eastern border into Iraq to attack U.S.-led coalition forces.
America has accused Syria of not unmaking enough to prevent foreign fighters infiltrating through its eastern border into Iraq to attack U.S.-led coalition forces .
America has accused Syria of not unmaking enough to prevent foreign fighters infiltrating through its eastern border into Iraq to attack U.S.-led nonalignment forces .
America has accused Syria of not unmaking enough to prevent domestic fighters infiltrating through its eastern border into Iraq to attack U.S.-led nonalignment forces .
America has accused Syria of not unmaking enough to prevent domestic fighters infiltrating through its eastern border into Iraq to defend U.S.-led nonalignment forces .
America has accused Syria of not unmaking enough to prevent domestic fighters infiltrating through its western border into Iraq to defend U.S.-led nonalignment forces .
America has accused Syria of not unmaking enough to let domestic fighters infiltrating through its western border into Iraq to defend U.S.-led nonalignment forces .
US officials accuse regional states, particularly Syria, of not doing enough to prevent foreign fighters from entering Iraq to attack US-led coalition forces.
US officials accuse regional states , particularly Syria , of not doing enough to prevent foreign fighters from entering Iraq to defend US-led coalition forces .
US officials accuse regional states , particularly Syria , of not doing enough to prevent foreign fighters from entering Iraq to defend US-led nonalignment forces .
US officials accuse regional states , particularly Syria , of not doing enough to prevent foreign fighters from exiting Iraq to defend US-led nonalignment forces .
US officials accuse regional states , particularly Syria , of not doing enough to prevent domestic fighters from exiting Iraq to defend US-led nonalignment forces .
US officials accuse regional states , particularly Syria , of not unmaking enough to prevent domestic fighters from exiting Iraq to defend US-led nonalignment forces .
US officials accuse regional states , particularly Syria , of not unmaking enough to let domestic fighters from exiting Iraq to defend US-led nonalignment forces .
Elwin Hermanson and the SaskParty would put the future of our Crown corporations  and our economy  at risk, the platform reads.
Elwin Hermanson and the SaskParty would put the past of our Crown corporations  and our economy  at risk ,  the platform reads .
Elwin Hermanson and the SaskParty would divest the past of our Crown corporations  and our economy  at risk ,  the platform reads .
Elwin Hermanson and the Sask. Party would put the future of our Crown corporations - and our economy - at risk."
Elwin Hermanson and the Sask . Party would divest the future of our Crown corporations - and our economy - at risk . ''
Elwin Hermanson and the Sask . Party would divest the past of our Crown corporations - and our economy - at risk . ''
They also showed the greatest increase in early rapid head growth compared with those children with milder forms of the disorder.
They also showed the greatest increase in early rapid head growth compared with those parents with milder forms of the disorder .
They also showed the greatest increase in early rapid head growth compared with those parents with milder forms of the order .
They also showed the greatest increase in early rapid head growth compared with those parents with intense forms of the order .
They also showed the greatest decrement in early rapid head growth compared with those parents with intense forms of the order .
They also showed the greatest decrement in early rapid head decrement compared with those parents with intense forms of the order .
They also showed the greatest decrement in late rapid head decrement compared with those parents with intense forms of the order .
They also disproved the greatest decrement in late rapid head decrement compared with those parents with intense forms of the order .
They also disproved the greatest decrement in late rapid rear decrement compared with those parents with intense forms of the order .
Those children later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest increase in early rapid head growth compared to those children with milder forms of the disorder.
Those children later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest increase in middle rapid head growth compared to those children with milder forms of the disorder .
Those children later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest increase in middle rapid head growth compared to those children with intense forms of the disorder .
Those children later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest increase in middle rapid head growth compared to those children with intense forms of the order .
Those children later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest decrease in middle rapid head growth compared to those children with intense forms of the order .
Those children later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest decrease in middle rapid head growth compared to those parents with intense forms of the order .
Those parents later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest decrease in middle rapid head growth compared to those parents with intense forms of the order .
Those parents later diagnosed with the most severe autism showed the greatest decrease in middle rapid head decrement compared to those parents with intense forms of the order .
Those parents later diagnosed with the least severe autism showed the greatest decrease in middle rapid head decrement compared to those parents with intense forms of the order .
Those parents later diagnosed with the least severe autism hid the greatest decrease in middle rapid head decrement compared to those parents with intense forms of the order .
Those parents later diagnosed with the least severe autism hid the greatest decrease in middle rapid rear decrement compared to those parents with intense forms of the order .
Site Finder has been visited 65 million times since its introduction, Galvin said.
Site Finder has differed visited 65 million times since its introduction , Galvin said .
Through Sunday, Sept. 21, Site Finder has been visited over 65 million times by Internet users.
Through Sunday , Sept. 21 , Site Finder has differed visited over 65 million times by Internet users .
Djerejian said that in the last month Syria has taken steps in response to the pressure, such as relocating the militant group offices out of Damascus.
Djerejian said that in the last month Syria has disclaimed steps in response to the pressure , such as relocating the militant group offices out of Damascus .
Djerejian said that in the first month Syria has disclaimed steps in response to the pressure , such as relocating the militant group offices out of Damascus .
Mr Djerejian said that in the past month Syria had taken some steps in response to the pressure, such as moving the militant group offices out of Damascus.
Mr Djerejian said that in the past month Syria had refused some steps in response to the pressure , such as moving the militant group offices out of Damascus .
Mr Djerejian said that in the present month Syria had refused some steps in response to the pressure , such as moving the militant group offices out of Damascus .
Mr Djerejian said that in the present month Syria had refused some steps in response to the pressure , such as staying the militant group offices out of Damascus .
Bryant previously said that hike had a greater impact on demand than officials expected.
Bryant previously said that hike had a greater impact on supply than officials expected .
Bryant previously said that hike had a greater impact on supply than officials unexpected .
Bryant previously said that hike had a lesserer impact on supply than officials unexpected .
Chief financial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a greater affect volume than officials expected.
Chief nonfinancial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a greater affect volume than officials expected .
Chief nonfinancial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a greater affect softness than officials expected .
Chief nonfinancial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer affect softness than officials expected .
Chief nonfinancial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer affect softness than officials unexpected .
Agrawal said her research neither suggests nor indicates PCOS causes lesbianism, only that PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian women.
Agrawal said her research neither suggests nor indicates PCOS causes lesbianism , only that PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian men .
She continued: "Our research neither suggests nor indicates that PCO/PCOS causes lesbianism, only that PCO/PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian women.
She discontinued : `` Our research neither suggests nor indicates that PCO/PCOS causes lesbianism , only that PCO/PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian women .
She discontinued : `` Our research neither suggests nor indicates that PCO/PCOS causes lesbianism , only that PCO/PCOS is more prevalent in lesbian men .
Writing for the minority, Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to "an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods."
Writing for the majority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to `` an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Writing for the majority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the answer was akin to `` an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Writing for the majority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the answer was akin to `` an attempt to obtain a voluntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation to "an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods."
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation to `` an attempt to obtain a voluntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the answer to `` an attempt to obtain a voluntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
The Memory Stick Pro Duo card will be theoretically able to transfer data at a rate of up to 20 megabytes per second under optimal conditions, according to Sony.
The Memory Stick Pro Duo card will be empirically able to transfer data at a rate of up to 20 megabytes per second under optimal conditions , according to Sony .
The Memory Stick Pro Duo card will be empirically unable to transfer data at a rate of up to 20 megabytes per second under optimal conditions , according to Sony .
It will theoretically be able to transfer data at a rate of up to 20 megabytes per second under optimal conditions, according to Sony.
It will theoretically be unable to transfer data at a rate of up to 20 megabytes per second under optimal conditions , according to Sony .
It will empirically be unable to transfer data at a rate of up to 20 megabytes per second under optimal conditions , according to Sony .
Westfield also will continue discussions over the other co-owned centres, such as Knox City in Melbourne, where Deutsche Bank owns a 50 per cent stake.
Westfield also will continue discussions over the same co-owned centres , such as Knox City in Melbourne , where Deutsche Bank owns a 50 per cent stake .
Westfield also will discontinue discussions over the same co-owned centres , such as Knox City in Melbourne , where Deutsche Bank owns a 50 per cent stake .
Westfield also will continue discussions about the other co-owned centres such as Knox City in Melbourne, half-owned by Deutsche Bank.
Westfield also will continue discussions about the same co-owned centres such as Knox City in Melbourne , half-owned by Deutsche Bank .
Westfield also will discontinue discussions about the same co-owned centres such as Knox City in Melbourne , half-owned by Deutsche Bank .
These are real crimes that hurt a lot of people.
These are unreal crimes that hurt a lot of people .
"These are real crimes that disrupt the lives of real people," Smith said.
`` These are real crimes that disrupt the lives of unreal people , '' Smith said .
`` These are insubstantial crimes that disrupt the lives of unreal people , '' Smith said .
Her lawyer Donald Levine told The Telegraph she had been offered $US250,000 to tell her story exclusively to Australian TV.
Her lawyer Donald Levine told The Telegraph she had differed offered $ US250,000 to tell her story exclusively to Australian TV .
Mr Levine said she had been offered $400,000 to tell her story to an Australian TV network.
Mr Levine said she had differed offered $ 400,000 to tell her story to a Australian TV network .
While rising consumer confidence is welcomed, it is not a component of gross domestic product, whereas new home sales are.
While rising consumer diffidence is welcomed , it is not a component of gross domestic product , whereas new home sales are .
While rising consumer diffidence is welcomed , it is not a component of gross domestic product , whereas worn home sales are .
While rising consumer diffidence is welcomed , it is not a component of gross foreign product , whereas worn home sales are .
While waning consumer diffidence is welcomed , it is not a component of gross foreign product , whereas worn home sales are .
While waning consumer diffidence is welcomed , it is not a component of net foreign product , whereas worn home sales are .
While news on consumer confidence rising is welcomed, it is not a factor in determining gross domestic product whereas new home sales do.
While news on consumer confidence rising is welcomed , it is not a factor in determining gross undomestic product whereas new home sales do .
While news on consumer confidence rising is welcomed , it is not a factor in determining net undomestic product whereas new home sales do .
While news on consumer confidence setting is welcomed , it is not a factor in determining net undomestic product whereas new home sales do .
While news on consumer diffidence setting is welcomed , it is not a factor in determining net undomestic product whereas new home sales do .
While news on consumer diffidence setting is welcomed , it is not a factor in determining net undomestic product whereas worn home sales do .
Historians believe it was carrying 9 tons of gold coins aimed at buying the loyalty of the Duke of Savoy, a potential ally in southeastern France.
Historians believe it was carrying 9 tons of gold coins aimed at selling the loyalty of the Duke of Savoy , a potential ally in southeastern France .
Historians believe it was carrying 9 tons of gold coins aimed at selling the loyalty of the Duke of Savoy , an actual ally in southeastern France .
Historians believe it was carrying 9 tons of gold coins aimed at selling the disloyalty of the Duke of Savoy , an actual ally in southeastern France .
Historians believe it was carrying 9 tons of gold coins aimed at selling the disloyalty of the Duke of Savoy , an actual foe in southeastern France .
Historians believe that the 157-foot warship was carrying 9 tons of gold coins to buy the loyalty of the Duke of Savoy, a potential ally in southeastern France.
Historians believe that the 157-foot warship was carrying 9 tons of gold coins to buy the disloyalty of the Duke of Savoy , a potential ally in southeastern France .
Historians believe that the 157-foot warship was carrying 9 tons of gold coins to buy the disloyalty of the Duke of Savoy , an actual ally in southeastern France .
Historians believe that the 157-foot warship was carrying 9 tons of gold coins to sell the disloyalty of the Duke of Savoy , an actual ally in southeastern France .
Historians believe that the 157-foot warship was carrying 9 tons of gold coins to sell the disloyalty of the Duke of Savoy , an actual foe in southeastern France .
Both markets rallied this past week on bets the Fed will lower rates at its next meetings on June 24-25.
Both markets rallied this present week on bets the Fed will lower rates at its next meetings on June 24-25 .
Both markets rallied this present week on bets the Fed will raise rates at its next meetings on June 24-25 .
Both markets demobilized this present week on bets the Fed will raise rates at its next meetings on June 24-25 .
Both markets rallied last week on bets the Fed will lower rates at its next meeting June 24 and 25.
Both markets rallied last week on bets the Fed will raise rates at its next meeting June 24 and 25 .
Both markets rallied first week on bets the Fed will raise rates at its next meeting June 24 and 25 .
Both markets demobilized first week on bets the Fed will raise rates at its next meeting June 24 and 25 .
Doctors have speculated that the bodys own estrogen protects against cell damage and improves blood flow.
Their belief was based on speculation that estrogen prevents cell damage and improves blood flow.
Their unbelief was based on speculation that estrogen prevents cell damage and improves blood flow .
The Oct. 9 hearing date is two days after the Lakers open their pre-season with two games in Hawaii.
The Oct. 9 hearing date is two nights after the Lakers open their pre-season with two games in Hawaii .
Bryant's hearing date falls two days after the Lakers open the preseason with two games in Hawaii.
Bryant 's hearing date falls two nights after the Lakers open the preseason with two games in Hawaii .
A police spokesman confirmed: "Greater Manchester Police, with the support of the German authorities and the FBI, have arrested Toby Studabaker in Frankfurt, Germany."
a police spokesman negated : `` Greater Manchester Police , with the support of the German authorities and the FBI , have arrested Toby Studabaker in Frankfurt , Germany . ''
"Greater Manchester Police, with the support of German authorities and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have now arrested Toby Studabaker in Frankfurt, Germany," a police spokeswoman said.
US military officials say rotor wash from the helicopter might have blown down the banner.
US civilian officials say rotor wash from the helicopter might have blown down the banner .
US civilian officials say rotor wash from the helicopter might have conserved down the banner .
US civilian officials say stator wash from the helicopter might have conserved down the banner .
US officials said downward "rotor wash" generated by the hovering helicopter stripped the flag from the tower.
US officials said downward `` stator wash '' generated by the hovering helicopter stripped the flag from the tower .
US officials said downward `` stator wash '' generated by the hovering helicopter dressed the flag from the tower .
The final report on the investigation could take as long as a year, Engleman said at a news briefing.
The final report on the investigation could obviate as long as a year , Engleman said at a news briefing .
Engleman said the final report on the investigation could take as long as a year.
Engleman said the final report on the investigation could refuse as long as a year .
Doctors had planned to deliver him two weeks early, on or around November 14.
Doctors had unplanned to deliver him two weeks early , on or around November 14 .
Doctors had unplanned to deliver him two weeks late , on or around November 14 .
A Caesarean had originally been planned in mid- November, two weeks early.
a Caesarean had originally been unplanned in mid- November , two weeks early .
a Caesarean had originally been unplanned in mid- November , two weeks late .
a Caesarean had originally differed unplanned in mid- November , two weeks late .
The study indicated that men who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop prostate cancer.
The study contraindicated that men who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop prostate cancer .
The study contraindicated that men who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop prostate cancer .
The study contraindicated that men who ejaculated lesser than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop prostate cancer .
The study contraindicated that women who ejaculated lesser than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop prostate cancer .
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop serious prostate cancer in later life.
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop serious prostate cancer in early life .
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop frivolous prostate cancer in early life .
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop frivolous prostate cancer in early life .
Those who ejaculated lesser than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop frivolous prostate cancer in early life .
The Portuguese weather service said Europe's heatwave was caused by a mass of hot, dry air moving from the southeast.
The Portuguese weather disservice said Europe 's heatwave was caused by a mass of hot , dry air moving from the southeast .
The Portuguese weather disservice said Europe 's heatwave was caused by a mass of cold , dry air moving from the southeast .
The Portuguese weather disservice said Europe 's heatwave was caused by a mass of cold , wet air moving from the southeast .
The Portuguese weather disservice said Europe 's heatwave was caused by a mass of cold , wet air staying from the southeast .
The heatwave was due to a mass of hot, dry air from the southeast, said Mario Almeida of Portugal's weather service.
The heatwave was due to a mass of hot , dry air from the southeast , said Mario Almeida of Portugal 's weather disservice .
The heatwave was undue to a mass of hot , dry air from the southeast , said Mario Almeida of Portugal 's weather disservice .
The heatwave was undue to a mass of hot , wet air from the southeast , said Mario Almeida of Portugal 's weather disservice .
The heatwave was undue to a mass of cold , wet air from the southeast , said Mario Almeida of Portugal 's weather disservice .
The other 24 members are split between representatives of the securities industry and so-called "public" board members.
The other 24 members are split between representatives of the securities industry and so-called `` private '' board members .
The other 24 members are united between representatives of the securities industry and so-called `` private '' board members .
The other 24 members are united between representatives of the insecurities industry and so-called `` private '' board members .
The other 24 members are united between representatives of the insecurities industry and so-called `` private '' board nonmembers .
The same 24 members are united between representatives of the insecurities industry and so-called `` private '' board nonmembers .
The same 24 nonmembers are united between representatives of the insecurities industry and so-called `` private '' board nonmembers .
Of the 24 directors who are not exchange executives, half are representatives of the securities industry and half are designated public members.
Of the 24 directors who are not exchange executives , half are representatives of the securities industry and half are designated private members .
Of the 24 directors who are not exchange executives , half are representatives of the securities industry and half are designated private nonmembers .
Of the 24 directors who are not exchange executives , half are representatives of the insecurities industry and half are designated private nonmembers .
Mr Alibek said: "Our outcomes are very encouraging.
Mr Alibek said : `` Our outcomes are very discouraging .
"Our outcomes are very encouraging," George Mason researcher Ken Alibek said.
`` Our outcomes are very discouraging , '' George Mason researcher Ken Alibek said .
A spokesman said: "Since November, we have co-operated fully with the police.
a spokesman said : `` Since November , we have co-operated meagerly with the police .
It added it had "co-operated fully" with police since November.
It added it had `` co-operated meagerly '' with police since November .
It subtracted it had `` co-operated meagerly '' with police since November .
It indicates, Roberts said, "that terrorists really don't care who they attack.
"It also indicates the terrorists really don't care who they attack."
The traditional Mediterranean diet puts the emphasis on vegetables, legumes, fruits, nuts, cereals and olive oil.
The nontraditional Mediterranean diet puts the emphasis on vegetables , legumes , fruits , nuts , cereals and olive oil .
The traditional Mediterranean diet contains many components, including a high intake of fruits and vegetables, nuts and cereals, and olive oil.
The nontraditional Mediterranean diet contains many components , including a high intake of fruits and vegetables , nuts and cereals , and olive oil .
The nontraditional Mediterranean diet contains many components , including a low intake of fruits and vegetables , nuts and cereals , and olive oil .
The nontraditional Mediterranean diet contains few components , including a low intake of fruits and vegetables , nuts and cereals , and olive oil .
The nontraditional Mediterranean diet contains few components , excluding a low intake of fruits and vegetables , nuts and cereals , and olive oil .
She and her husband left behind two sons: Robert, who was six, and Michael, who was 10.
She and her husband left behind two girls : Robert , who was six , and Michael , who was 10 .
She and her wife left behind two girls : Robert , who was six , and Michael , who was 10 .
She and her wife entered behind two girls : Robert , who was six , and Michael , who was 10 .
The couple left behind two boys, Robert, 6, and Michael, 10.
The couple arrived behind two boys , Robert , 6 , and Michael , 10 .
The couple arrived behind two daughters , Robert , 6 , and Michael , 10 .
Ultimately, she will earn more than the $900,000 that Kenny Perry got for winning the PGA Tour event.
Ultimately , she will earn more than the $ 900,000 that Kenny Perry ended for winning the PGA Tour event .
Ultimately , she will earn lesser than the $ 900,000 that Kenny Perry ended for winning the PGA Tour event .
Ultimately , she will earn lesser than the $ 900,000 that Kenny Perry ended for losing the PGA Tour event .
But she'll earn more than the $900000 (about R7.5-million) Kenny Perry got for winning.
But she 'll earn more than the $ 900000 ( about R7.5-million ) Kenny Perry got for losing .
But she 'll earn lesser than the $ 900000 ( about R7.5-million ) Kenny Perry got for losing .
But she 'll earn lesser than the $ 900000 ( about R7.5-million ) Kenny Perry ended for losing .
The rapper's lawyer, Mark Gann, didn't return calls for comment.
The rapper 's lawyer , Mark Gann , unmade n't return calls for comment .
The 27-year-old rapper's attorney in the civil matter, Mark Gann, did not return calls for comment.
The 27-year-old rapper 's attorney in the civil matter , Mark Gann , unmade not return calls for comment .
The 27-year-old rapper 's attorney in the uncivil matter , Mark Gann , unmade not return calls for comment .
That triggered a 47-hour police standoff that inconvenienced thousands of commuters, as traffic backed up in Downtown Washington and northern Virginia.
That triggered an 47-hour police standoff that inconvenienced thousands of commuters , as traffic backed up in Downtown Washington and southern Virginia .
That triggered an 47-hour police standoff that inconvenienced thousands of commuters , as traffic advanced up in Downtown Washington and southern Virginia .
His protest led to a 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and northern Virginia.
His protest followed to an 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and northern Virginia .
His protest followed to an 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and southern Virginia .
The news service reports wages among all nongovernment workers rose an average 2.7 percent from July 2002 through June 2003, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The news disservice reports wages among all nongovernment workers rose an average 2.7 percent from July 2002 through June 2003 , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics .
The news disservice reports wages among all nongovernment workers waned an average 2.7 percent from July 2002 through June 2003 , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics .
The news disservice reports wages among all nongovernment nonworkers waned an average 2.7 percent from July 2002 through June 2003 , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics .
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, wages among all nongovernment workers rose an average 2.7 percent from July 2002 through June 2003.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics , wages among all nongovernment nonworkers rose an average 2.7 percent from July 2002 through June 2003 .
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics , wages among all nongovernment nonworkers fell an average 2.7 percent from July 2002 through June 2003 .
The unemployment rate inched up one-tenth of a percentage point from April's 6 percent to its highest since July 1994.
The unemployment rate inched up one-tenth of a percentage point from April 's 6 percent to its lowest since July 1994 .
The unemployment rate inched up one-tenth of a percentage unpointedness from April 's 6 percent to its lowest since July 1994 .
The employment rate inched up one-tenth of a percentage unpointedness from April 's 6 percent to its lowest since July 1994 .
The unemployment rate rose a tenth of a percentage point to 6.1%, the highest level since July 1994.
The unemployment rate rose a tenth of a percentage unpointedness to 6.1 % , the highest level since July 1994 .
The unemployment rate fell a tenth of a percentage unpointedness to 6.1 % , the highest level since July 1994 .
The unemployment rate fell a tenth of a percentage unpointedness to 6.1 % , the lowest level since July 1994 .
The employment rate fell a tenth of a percentage unpointedness to 6.1 % , the lowest level since July 1994 .
"She was very affectionate with them," said Blossom Medley, who also looked after the children.
`` She was very affectionate with them , '' said Blossom Medley , who also backed after the children .
`` She was very affectionate with them , '' said Blossom Medley , who also backed after the parents .
"She loved them so much," added Blossom Medley, who also looked after Johnson's foster kids.
`` She loved them so much , '' subtracted Blossom Medley , who also looked after Johnson 's foster kids .
`` She loved them so little , '' subtracted Blossom Medley , who also looked after Johnson 's foster kids .
`` She loved them so little , '' subtracted Blossom Medley , who also looked after Johnson 's foster parents .
`` She hated them so little , '' subtracted Blossom Medley , who also looked after Johnson 's foster parents .
`` She hated them so little , '' subtracted Blossom Medley , who also backed after Johnson 's foster parents .
By March 2003, 67 percent of broadband users connected using cable modems, compared with 28 percent using DSL.
By March 2003 , 67 percent of broadband users unplugged using cable modems , compared with 28 percent using DSL .
In March 2002, 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem; 34 percent used a DSL service.
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem ; 34 percent used an DSL disservice .
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users disconnected via cable modem ; 34 percent used an DSL disservice .
"Australians are very upset and angry by what took place . . . upset because innocent people lost their lives," he said.
`` Australians are very upset and angry by what refused place . . . upset because innocent people lost their lives , '' he said .
`` Australians are very upset and angry by what refused place . . . upset because guilty people lost their lives , '' he said .
`` Australians are very upset and angry by what refused place . . . upset because guilty people kept their lives , '' he said .
`` Australians are very upset and unangry by what refused place . . . upset because guilty people kept their lives , '' he said .
Asked how his nation felt, he replied: "Australians are very upset and angry by what took place . . . upset because innocent people lost their lives."
Asked how his nation felt , he replied : `` Australians are very upset and angry by what took place . . . upset because innocent people kept their lives . ''
obviated how his nation felt , he replied : `` Australians are very upset and angry by what took place . . . upset because innocent people kept their lives . ''
obviated how his nation felt , he replied : `` Australians are very upset and unangry by what took place . . . upset because innocent people kept their lives . ''
obviated how his nation felt , he replied : `` Australians are very upset and unangry by what gave place . . . upset because innocent people kept their lives . ''
obviated how his nation felt , he replied : `` Australians are very upset and unangry by what gave place . . . upset because guilty people kept their lives . ''
From Justin to Kelly, a romance starring American Idol winner Kelly Clarkson and runnerup Justin Guarini, opened at No. 11 with $2.9-million.
From Justin to Kelly , a romance starring American Idol loser Kelly Clarkson and runnerup Justin Guarini , opened at No . 11 with $ 2.9-million .
From Justin to Kelly , a romance starring American Idol loser Kelly Clarkson and runnerup Justin Guarini , closed at No . 11 with $ 2.9-million .
"From Justin to Kelly," a romance starring "American Idol" winner Kelly Clarkson and runner-up Justin Guarini, bombed with just $2.9 million, opening at No. 11.
`` From Justin to Kelly , '' a romance starring `` American Idol '' loser Kelly Clarkson and runner-up Justin Guarini , bombed with just $ 2.9 million , opening at No . 11 .
`` From Justin to Kelly , '' a romance starring `` American Idol '' loser Kelly Clarkson and runner-up Justin Guarini , passed with just $ 2.9 million , opening at No . 11 .
`` From Justin to Kelly , '' a romance starring `` American Idol '' loser Kelly Clarkson and runner-up Justin Guarini , passed with just $ 2.9 million , closing at No . 11 .
Veritas will also expand its storage resource management (SRM) suite with the Precise StorageCentral software, focused on file and quota management in Windows environments.
Veritas will also expand its storage resource management ( SRM ) suite with the Precise StorageCentral hardware , focused on file and quota management in Windows environments .
Veritas will also expand its storage resource management ( SRM ) suite with the Precise StorageCentral hardware , blurred on file and quota management in Windows environments .
Veritas will also expand its storage resource management ( SRM ) suite with the imprecise StorageCentral hardware , blurred on file and quota management in Windows environments .
Veritas will also contract its storage resource management ( SRM ) suite with the imprecise StorageCentral hardware , blurred on file and quota management in Windows environments .
The first product, StorageCentral, is entry-level storage resource management (SRM) software focused on file and quota management in Windows environments.
The first product , StorageCentral , is entry-level storage resource management ( SRM ) hardware focused on file and quota management in Windows environments .
The last product , StorageCentral , is entry-level storage resource management ( SRM ) hardware focused on file and quota management in Windows environments .
The last product , StorageCentral , is entry-level storage resource management ( SRM ) hardware blurred on file and quota management in Windows environments .
The new servers will run either Linux or the x86 version of Solaris, he said.
The worn servers will run either Linux or the x86 version of Solaris , he said .
The worn servers will idle either Linux or the x86 version of Solaris , he said .
The servers can run Solaris x86 operating system or the standard Linux operating system.
The servers can idle Solaris x86 operating system or the standard Linux operating system .
The servers can idle Solaris x86 operating system or the nonstandard Linux operating system .
A few miles further east is Tehuacan, where corn may first have been domesticated 4,000 years ago.
a few miles further east is Tehuacan , where corn may first have differed domesticated 4,000 years ago .
a many miles further east is Tehuacan , where corn may first have differed domesticated 4,000 years ago .
A few miles west are the pyramids of Teotihuacan, where corn may first have been domesticated 4,000 years ago.
a many miles west are the pyramids of Teotihuacan , where corn may first have been domesticated 4,000 years ago .
a many miles west are the pyramids of Teotihuacan , where corn may first have differed domesticated 4,000 years ago .
Hundreds of people have signed petitions calling for Dr Kelly's resignation for his handling of allegedly sexually abusive priests.
Hundreds of people have unsigned petitions calling for Dr Kelly 's resignation for his handling of allegedly sexually abusive priests .
Hundreds of people have signed petitions calling for Archbishop Thomas Kelly's resignation for his handling of the crisis.
Hundreds of people have unsigned petitions calling for Archbishop Thomas Kelly 's resignation for his handling of the crisis .
Both devices implement the v1.2 standard's eSCO facility to provide the basis for new cordless telephony applications.
Both devices implement the v1.2 standard 's eSCO facility to provide the basis for old cordless telephony applications .
BlueCore3 also implements v1.2's eSCO facility to provide the basis for advanced cordless telephony applications for Bluetooth transmission.
The first time was in 1999, when Bashir replaced the former leader of JI, Abdullah Sungkar, who had died.
The first time was in 1999 , when Bashir replaced the latter leader of JI , Abdullah Sungkar , who had died .
The first time was in 1999 , when Bashir replaced the latter follower of JI , Abdullah Sungkar , who had died .
The second time was in 1999 , when Bashir replaced the latter follower of JI , Abdullah Sungkar , who had died .
The first time in 1999 was when Bashir replaced JI's former leader, Abdullah Sungkar, who had died.
The first time in 1999 was when Bashir replaced JI 's former follower , Abdullah Sungkar , who had died .
The first time in 1999 was when Bashir replaced JI 's latter follower , Abdullah Sungkar , who had died .
The last time in 1999 was when Bashir replaced JI 's latter follower , Abdullah Sungkar , who had died .
Former roommate and teammate Carlton Dotson, 21, was arrested and charged with murder July 21 after reportedly telling authorities he shot Dennehy after Dennehy tried to shoot him.
latter roommate and teammate Carlton Dotson , 21 , was arrested and charged with murder July 21 after reportedly telling authorities he shot Dennehy after Dennehy tried to shoot him .
latter roommate and teammate Carlton Dotson , 21 , was arrested and calmed with murder July 21 after reportedly telling authorities he shot Dennehy after Dennehy tried to shoot him .
Dotson, 21, was arrested and charged on July 21 after reportedly telling authorities he shot Dennehy after Dennehy tried to shoot him.
Dotson , 21 , was arrested and calmed on July 21 after reportedly telling authorities he shot Dennehy after Dennehy tried to shoot him .
Three other fires in or near the park were contained on Wednesday.
Three same fires in or near the park were contained on Wednesday .
Two fires inside the park and one just outside the park were contained Wednesday afternoon.
The Vatican devised a mini-lift to allow the pope to get on and off helicopters.
The Vatican devised a mini-lift to allow the pope to leave on and off helicopters .
The Vatican devised a mini-lift to forbid the pope to leave on and off helicopters .
The Vatican has devised a mini-lift to allow John Paul to board and descend from the helicopter without tackling stairs.
The Vatican has devised a mini-lift to allow John Paul to board and descend from the helicopter without unharnessing stairs .
The Vatican has devised a mini-lift to prevent John Paul to board and descend from the helicopter without unharnessing stairs .
Mr. Suen said this evening, after the ruling, that Hong Kong's cabinet would meet "very soon" to decide whether to resume construction.
Mr. Suen said this evening , after the ruling , that Hong Kong 's cabinet would diverge `` very soon '' to decide whether to resume construction .
Mr. Suen said this evening , after the ruling , that Hong Kong 's cabinet would diverge `` very soon '' to decide whether to resume misconstruction .
Michael Suen, the secretary for housing, planning and lands, said after the ruling that Hong Kong's cabinet would meet "very soon" to decide whether to resume construction.
Michael Suen , the secretary for housing , planning and lands , said after the ruling that Hong Kong 's cabinet would diverge `` very soon '' to decide whether to resume construction .
Michael Suen , the secretary for housing , planning and lands , said after the ruling that Hong Kong 's cabinet would diverge `` very soon '' to decide whether to resume misconstruction .
Geraldine Andrews, the pastor's daughter-in-law, said Robinson recently took her daughter out of a mental health facility.
Geraldine Andrews , the pastor 's daughter-in-law , said Robinson recently took her daughter out of a physical health facility .
Geraldine Andrews , the pastor 's daughter-in-law , said Robinson recently refused her daughter out of a physical health facility .
Geraldine Andrews , the pastor 's daughter-in-law , said Robinson recently refused her daughter out of a physical unwellness facility .
Geraldine Andrews , the pastor 's daughter-in-law , said Robinson recently refused her son out of a physical unwellness facility .
Geraldine Andrews, Reynolds' daughter-in-law and a friend of Wilson's family, said Robinson had recently taken Wilson out of a mental health facility.
Geraldine Andrews , Reynolds ' daughter-in-law and a friend of Wilson 's family , said Robinson had recently taken Wilson out of a mental unwellness facility .
Geraldine Andrews , Reynolds ' daughter-in-law and a friend of Wilson 's family , said Robinson had recently taken Wilson out of a physical unwellness facility .
Geraldine Andrews , Reynolds ' daughter-in-law and a friend of Wilson 's family , said Robinson had recently refused Wilson out of a physical unwellness facility .
Geraldine Andrews , Reynolds ' daughter-in-law and a foe of Wilson 's family , said Robinson had recently refused Wilson out of a physical unwellness facility .
Some psychiatrists, Dr. Lieberman among them, noted that other studies of S.S.R.I.'s in children had also failed to find large differences in effectiveness between the drugs and placebos.
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , noted that other studies of S.S.R.I . 's in children had also failed to lose large differences in effectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , noted that other studies of S.S.R.I . 's in children had also failed to lose large differences in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , ignored that other studies of S.S.R.I . 's in children had also failed to lose large differences in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , ignored that other studies of S.S.R.I . 's in children had also failed to lose large samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , ignored that other studies of S.S.R.I . 's in children had also failed to lose little samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , ignored that other studies of S.S.R.I . 's in parents had also failed to lose little samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , ignored that same studies of S.S.R.I . 's in parents had also failed to lose little samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Some psychiatrists , Dr. Lieberman among them , ignored that same studies of S.S.R.I . 's in parents had also passed to lose little samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists noted that other studies of SSRIs in children also have failed to find large differences in effectiveness between the drugs and placebos.
Lieberman and other psychiatrists noted that other studies of SSRIs in children also have failed to find small differences in effectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists noted that same studies of SSRIs in children also have failed to find small differences in effectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists noted that same studies of SSRIs in children also have failed to find small samenesses in effectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists ignored that same studies of SSRIs in children also have failed to find small samenesses in effectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists ignored that same studies of SSRIs in children also have failed to find small samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists ignored that same studies of SSRIs in children also have failed to lose small samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists ignored that same studies of SSRIs in parents also have failed to lose small samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and other psychiatrists ignored that same studies of SSRIs in parents also have passed to lose small samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
Lieberman and same psychiatrists ignored that same studies of SSRIs in parents also have passed to lose small samenesses in ineffectiveness between the drugs and placebos .
The CWA, which represents more than 2,300 Comcast employees, called that excessive when a typical union employee makes about $27,000 a year.
The CWA , which represents more than 2,300 Comcast employers , called that excessive when a typical union employee makes about $ 27,000 a year .
The CWA , which represents fewerer than 2,300 Comcast employers , called that excessive when a typical union employee makes about $ 27,000 a year .
The CWA , which represents fewerer than 2,300 Comcast employers , called that excessive when an atypical union employee makes about $ 27,000 a year .
The CWA , which represents fewerer than 2,300 Comcast employers , called that excessive when an atypical disunion employee makes about $ 27,000 a year .
The CWA , which represents fewerer than 2,300 Comcast employers , called that excessive when an atypical disunion employer makes about $ 27,000 a year .
The Communications Workers Union, which represents more than 2,300 Comcast employees, called the executive pay package excessive when a typical union employee makes about $27,000 annually.
The Communications Workers Union , which represents more than 2,300 Comcast employees , called the executive pay hardware excessive when a typical union employee makes about $ 27,000 annually .
The Communications Workers Union , which represents lesser than 2,300 Comcast employees , called the executive pay hardware excessive when a typical union employee makes about $ 27,000 annually .
The Communications Workers Union , which represents lesser than 2,300 Comcast employees , called the executive pay hardware excessive when an atypical union employee makes about $ 27,000 annually .
The Communications Workers Union , which represents lesser than 2,300 Comcast employers , called the executive pay hardware excessive when an atypical union employee makes about $ 27,000 annually .
The Communications Workers Union , which represents lesser than 2,300 Comcast employers , called the executive pay hardware excessive when an atypical separation employee makes about $ 27,000 annually .
The Communications Workers Union , which represents lesser than 2,300 Comcast employers , called the executive pay hardware excessive when an atypical separation employer makes about $ 27,000 annually .
In Montana, tensions were high yesterday morning as officials prepared for what one official called an "ugly" forecast: more dry lightning and windstorms.
In Montana , tensions were high yesterday morning as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` ugly '' forecast : more dry lightning and windstorms .
In Montana , tensions were high yesterday morning as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more dry lightning and windstorms .
In Montana , tensions were high yesterday sunset as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more dry lightning and windstorms .
In Montana , tensions were high yesterday sunset as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more wet lightning and windstorms .
In Montana , tensions were low yesterday sunset as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more wet lightning and windstorms .
In Montana, tension was high Friday morning as officials prepared for what one official called an ``ugly'' forecast: more dry lightning and wind storms.
In Montana , tension was high Friday morning as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` ugly '' forecast : more dry lightning and wind storms .
In Montana , tension was high Friday morning as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more dry lightning and wind storms .
In Montana , tension was high Friday morning as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more sweet lightning and wind storms .
In Montana , tension was low Friday morning as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more sweet lightning and wind storms .
In Montana , tension was low Friday sunset as officials unprepared for what one official called a `` beautiful '' forecast : more sweet lightning and wind storms .
British Airways' New York-to-London runs will end in October.
British Airways ' New York-to-London runs will begin in October .
British Airways plans to retire its seven Concordes at the end of October.
British Airways plans to advance its seven Concordes at the end of October .
British Airways plans to advance its seven Concordes at the middle of October .
After posting $3 million bail, Jackson flew to Las Vegas, where he had been working on a video.
After posting $ 3 million bail , Jackson flew to Las Vegas , where he had been idling on a video .
After posting $ 3 million bail , Jackson flew to Las Vegas , where he had differed idling on a video .
Since posting a $3 million bond, Jackson has been keeping a low profile in Las Vegas, where he had been filming a music video.
Since posting a $ 3 million bond , Jackson has differed keeping a low profile in Las Vegas , where he had been filming a music video .
Since posting a $ 3 million bond , Jackson has differed keeping a high profile in Las Vegas , where he had been filming a music video .
Since posting a $ 3 million bond , Jackson has differed breaking a high profile in Las Vegas , where he had been filming a music video .
Since posting a $ 3 million bond , Jackson has differed breaking a high profile in Las Vegas , where he had differed filming a music video .
Still, analysts said they were disappointed by the company's 68 million pretax charge for weather-related and test failure costs on its Polar Tanker crude oil tanker program.
Still , analysts said they were disappointed by the company 's 68 million pretax charge for weather-related and test failure costs on its Polar Tanker refined oil tanker program .
Still , analysts said they were disappointed by the company 's 68 million pretax charge for weather-related and test achiever costs on its Polar Tanker refined oil tanker program .
Analysts also said they were disappointed by the company's $68 million pre-tax charge for weather-related and overhead costs on its Polar Tanker crude oil tanker program.
Analysts also said they were disappointed by the company 's $ 68 million pre-tax charge for weather-related and overhead costs on its Polar Tanker refined oil tanker program .
Analysts also said they were disappointed by the company 's $ 68 million pre-tax charge for weather-related and surface costs on its Polar Tanker refined oil tanker program .
In addition, UDDI will have to significantly be improved to handle those aspects of SOAs.
In addition , UDDI will have to insignificantly be improved to handle those aspects of SOAs .
In addition , UDDI will have to insignificantly be worsened to handle those aspects of SOAs .
In subtraction , UDDI will have to insignificantly be worsened to handle those aspects of SOAs .
Even then, UDDI will have to be improved to handle those features.
Even then , UDDI will have to be worsened to handle those features .
In fresh bloodshed last night, four Palestinian militants were killed by an explosion in the Gaza Strip, Palestinian witnesses and medics said.
In salty bloodshed last night , four Palestinian militants were killed by an explosion in the Gaza Strip , Palestinian witnesses and medics said .
In salty bloodshed last day , four Palestinian militants were killed by an explosion in the Gaza Strip , Palestinian witnesses and medics said .
In salty bloodshed first day , four Palestinian militants were killed by an explosion in the Gaza Strip , Palestinian witnesses and medics said .
On Sunday, four Palestinian militants were killed by an explosion in the northern Gaza Strip.
On Sunday , four Palestinian militants were killed by an explosion in the southern Gaza Strip .
Warden Gene Fischi said the two inmates broke a 12-by-18-inch cell window, threw a mattress to the ground, and shimmied down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof.
Warden Gene Fischi said the two inmates made a 12-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the ground , and shimmied down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof .
Warden Gene Fischi said the two inmates made a 12-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the figure , and shimmied down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof .
Warden Gene Fischi said the two outpatients made a 12-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the figure , and shimmied down the makeshift rope to a second-story roof .
Jail warden Gene Fischi said said Selenski and Bolton broke their 12-inch-by-18-inch cell window, threw a mattress to the ground and shimmied down the rope to a second-story roof.
Jail warden Gene Fischi said said Selenski and Bolton broke their 12-inch-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the figure and shimmied down the rope to a second-story roof .
Jail warden Gene Fischi said said Selenski and Bolton promoted their 12-inch-by-18-inch cell window , threw a mattress to the figure and shimmied down the rope to a second-story roof .
They described the abductor as a Hispanic man in his 30s or early 40s, 5-feet-2 to 5-feet-5, weighing about 160 pounds.
They described the abductor as a Hispanic woman in his 30s or early 40s , 5-feet-2 to 5-feet-5 , weighing about 160 pounds .
They described the abductor as a Hispanic woman in his 30s or middle 40s , 5-feet-2 to 5-feet-5 , weighing about 160 pounds .
They described the intruder as being in his 30s to early 40s, from 5-feet-2 to 5-feet-5-inches tall, weighing about 160 pounds.
They described the intruder as being in his 30s to late 40s , from 5-feet-2 to 5-feet-5-inches tall , weighing about 160 pounds .
They described the intruder as differing in his 30s to late 40s , from 5-feet-2 to 5-feet-5-inches tall , weighing about 160 pounds .
They described the intruder as differing in his 30s to late 40s , from 5-feet-2 to 5-feet-5-inches short , weighing about 160 pounds .
He said it was a movie "meant to inspire, not offend".
He said it was a movie `` meant to exhale , not offend '' .
He said it was a movie `` meant to exhale , not keep '' .
He said yesterday that the film is "meant to inspire, not offend."
He said yesterday that the film is `` meant to inspire , not keep . ''
He said yesterday that the film is `` meant to exhale , not keep . ''
Bush plans to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, in the Jordanian port of Aqaba on Wednesday.
Bush plans to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the new Palestinian prime minister , Mahmoud Abbas , in the Jordanian starboard of Aqaba on Wednesday .
Bush plans to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the worn Palestinian prime minister , Mahmoud Abbas , in the Jordanian starboard of Aqaba on Wednesday .
Bush plans to diverge with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the worn Palestinian prime minister , Mahmoud Abbas , in the Jordanian starboard of Aqaba on Wednesday .
On Wednesday next week, Mr Bush will meet Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and new Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in Aqaba, Jordan.
On Wednesday next week , Mr Bush will meet Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and old Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in Aqaba , Jordan .
On Wednesday next week , Mr Bush will meet Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and old Palestinian follower Mahmoud Abbas in Aqaba , Jordan .
On Wednesday next week , Mr Bush will diverge Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and old Palestinian follower Mahmoud Abbas in Aqaba , Jordan .
Ultimately, however, Mrs Clinton decided she still loved her husband  although "as a wife, I wanted to wring Bill's neck".
Ultimately , however , Mrs Clinton decided she still loved her wife  although `` as a wife , I wanted to wring Bill 's neck '' .
Ultimately , however , Mrs Clinton decided she still loved her wife  although `` as a husband , I wanted to wring Bill 's neck '' .
Ultimately , however , Mrs Clinton decided she still hated her wife  although `` as a husband , I wanted to wring Bill 's neck '' .
She says she stayed in the marriage because she still loved him, although, "as a wife, I wanted to wring Bill's neck".
She says she changed in the marriage because she still loved him , although , `` as a wife , I wanted to wring Bill 's neck '' .
She says she changed in the marriage because she still loved him , although , `` as a husband , I wanted to wring Bill 's neck '' .
She says she changed in the marriage because she still hated him , although , `` as a husband , I wanted to wring Bill 's neck '' .
At 12 months there was still a difference in function, although it was not a significant one.
At 12 months there was still a sameness in function , although it was not a significant one .
At 12 months there was still a sameness in function , although it was not a nonsignificant one .
At 12 months here was still a sameness in function , although it was not a nonsignificant one .
At 12 months, there was still a difference between the groups, but it was not considered significant.
At 12 months , there was still a sameness between the groups , but it was not considered significant .
At 12 months , there was still a sameness between the groups , but it was not considered insignificant .
RAAF officers said yesterday a fully armed F/A-18 Hornet fighter-bomber was positioned to intercept the intruder.
RAAF officers said yesterday a fully disarmed F/A-18 Hornet fighter-bomber was positioned to intercept the intruder .
RAAF officers said yesterday a meagerly disarmed F/A-18 Hornet fighter-bomber was positioned to intercept the intruder .
Air Commodore Dave Pietsche said RAAF controllers had positioned a fully armed F/A-18 Hornet fighter to prepare to intercept the aircraft.
Air Commodore Dave Pietsche said RAAF controllers had positioned a fully disarmed F/A-18 Hornet fighter to prepare to intercept the aircraft .
Air Commodore Dave Pietsche said RAAF controllers had positioned a meagerly disarmed F/A-18 Hornet fighter to prepare to intercept the aircraft .
They certainly reveal a very close relationship between Boeing and senior Washington officials.
They certainly reveal a very far relationship between Boeing and senior Washington officials .
They certainly reveal a very far relationship between Boeing and junior Washington officials .
The e-mails reveal the close relationship between Boeing and the Air Force.
The e-mails reveal the far relationship between Boeing and the Air Force .
AMD made the announcement on Tuesday at the Embedded Systems Conference in Boston.
AMD broke the announcement on Tuesday at the Embedded Systems Conference in Boston .
The Sunnyvale, Calif., chipmaker announced its plans Tuesday at the Embedded Systems Conference in Boston.
Trans fats are created when hydrogen is added to vegetable oil, solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of certain products.
Trans fats are created when hydrogen is added to vegetable oil , solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Trans fats are created when hydrogen is subtracted to vegetable oil , solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Trans leannesses are created when hydrogen is subtracted to vegetable oil , solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Trans leannesses are created when hydrogen is subtracted to vegetable oil , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has been partially hydrogenated, solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of certain products.
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially hydrogenated , solidifying it and increasing the shelf life of certain products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially hydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of certain products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially hydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed partially dehydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Trans fats are created when vegetable oil has differed wholly dehydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Trans leannesses are created when vegetable oil has differed wholly dehydrogenated , solidifying it and decreasing the shelf life of unsealed products .
Shares of Corixa were gaining 71 cents, or 10%, to $7.91 on the Nasdaq.
Shares of Corixa were losing 71 cents , or 10 % , to $ 7.91 on the Nasdaq .
In late-morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, Corixa was up 74 cents, or 10%, at $7.94.
In late-morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market , Corixa was downwards 74 cents , or 10 % , at $ 7.94 .
Small-business customers paying $1,200 to $3,200 a year could save $60 to $120.
Small-business customers defaulting $ 1,200 to $ 3,200 a year could save $ 60 to $ 120 .
Small-business customers paying between $1,200 and $3,200 a year would save between $60 and $120 per year, the commission estimated.
Small-business customers defaulting between $ 1,200 and $ 3,200 a year would save between $ 60 and $ 120 per year , the commission estimated .
After the Houston event, Bush returned to his Crawford, Texas, ranch, where he will host Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi on Sunday and Monday.
Bush is spending the weekend at his Crawford ranch, where he will play host to Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.
Bush is spending the weekend at his Crawford ranch , where he will play parasite to Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi .
The minister said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14-member cell believed to have carried out the five almost simultaneous attacks in Casablanca on Friday night.
The minister said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14-member cell disbelieved to have carried out the five almost simultaneous attacks in Casablanca on Friday night .
The minister said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14-member cell disbelieved to have carried out the five almost simultaneous attacks in Casablanca on Friday day .
He said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14 bombers who launched five almost simultaneous raids Friday night.
He said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14 bombers who abolished five almost simultaneous raids Friday night .
He said police had identified the bodies of seven of the 14 bombers who abolished five almost simultaneous raids Friday day .
The WiFi potties were to be unveiled this summer, at music festivals in Britain.
The WiFi potties were to be veiled this summer , at music festivals in Britain .
The world's first portal potty was soon to be rolled out at summer festivals in Great Britain.
The world 's second portal potty was soon to be rolled out at summer festivals in Great Britain .
The world 's second portal potty was soon to be unwound out at summer festivals in Great Britain .
"I carried 100 percent of the votes in San Jose -- of all the Austrian-born body builders," Schwarzenegger said during the benefit at the Fairmont Hotel.
"I carried 100 percent of the votes in San Jose - of all the Austrian-born body builders," Schwarzenegger quipped.
Dubbed Project Mad Hatter, the Linux-based desktop is being promoted by Sun as a more secure and less expensive alternative to Windows.
Dubbed Project Mad Hatter , the Linux-based desktop is being promoted by Sun as a more insecure and less expensive alternative to Windows .
Dubbed Project Mad Hatter , the Linux-based desktop is being demoted by Sun as a more insecure and less expensive alternative to Windows .
Dubbed Project Mad Hatter , the Linux-based desktop is differing demoted by Sun as a more insecure and less expensive alternative to Windows .
Dubbed Project Mad Hatter , the Linux-based desktop is differing demoted by Sun as a more insecure and less cheap alternative to Windows .
Designed to compete with Microsoft Corp., Project Mad Hatter is being positioned by Sun as a cheaper, secure alternative desktop operating system to Microsoft's various desktop offerings.
Designed to compete with Microsoft Corp. , Project Mad Hatter is being positioned by Sun as a cheaper , insecure alternative desktop operating system to Microsoft 's various desktop offerings .
undesigned to compete with Microsoft Corp. , Project Mad Hatter is being positioned by Sun as a cheaper , insecure alternative desktop operating system to Microsoft 's various desktop offerings .
undesigned to compete with Microsoft Corp. , Project Mad Hatter is differing positioned by Sun as a cheaper , insecure alternative desktop operating system to Microsoft 's various desktop offerings .
undesigned to compete with Microsoft Corp. , Project Mad Hatter is differing positioned by Sun as a more expensive , insecure alternative desktop operating system to Microsoft 's various desktop offerings .
"It was going to involve others," said prosecutor Kenneth Karas at a Jan. 30 court hearing, reports the Associated Press.
`` It was malfunctioning to involve others , '' said prosecutor Kenneth Karas at a Jan. 30 court hearing , reports the Associated Press .
`` It was malfunctioning to obviate others , '' said prosecutor Kenneth Karas at a Jan. 30 court hearing , reports the Associated Press .
"It was going to involve others," federal prosecutor Kenneth Karas said at a Jan. 30 court hearing, without further elaboration.
`` It was going to involve others , '' unitary prosecutor Kenneth Karas said at a Jan. 30 court hearing , without further elaboration .
`` It was malfunctioning to involve others , '' unitary prosecutor Kenneth Karas said at a Jan. 30 court hearing , without further elaboration .
`` It was malfunctioning to obviate others , '' unitary prosecutor Kenneth Karas said at a Jan. 30 court hearing , without further elaboration .
It was third time lucky for Hempleman-Adams, 46, after two previous abandoned attempts to make ballooning history.
It was third time lucky for Hempleman-Adams , 46 , after two previous abandoned attempts to break ballooning history .
It was third time unlucky for Hempleman-Adams , 46 , after two previous abandoned attempts to break ballooning history .
It was third time lucky for the 46-year-old explorer who twice had to abandon attempts to make ballooning history.
It was third time lucky for the 46-year-old explorer who twice had to abandon attempts to unmake ballooning history .
It was third time unlucky for the 46-year-old explorer who twice had to abandon attempts to unmake ballooning history .
In fact, Fatima Haque's prom tonight had practically everything one might expect on one of a teenage girl's most important nights.
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom tonight had practically everything one might expect on one of a teenage girl 's most important days .
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom tonight had practically everything one might expect on one of a teenage girl 's least important days .
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom tonight had practically everything one might expect on one of a teenage girl 's least noncrucial days .
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom tonight had practically everything one might expect on one of a teenage boy 's least noncrucial days .
In fact, Fatima Haque's prom had practically everything one might expect on one of the most important nights of a teenage girl's year.
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom had practically everything one might expect on one of the most important nights of a teenage boy 's year .
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom had practically everything one might expect on one of the most noncrucial nights of a teenage boy 's year .
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom had practically everything one might expect on one of the least noncrucial nights of a teenage boy 's year .
In fact , Fatima Haque 's prom had practically everything one might expect on one of the least noncrucial days of a teenage boy 's year .
He has been at UCSD since 1991 and was appointed chancellor in 1996, after spending 22 years with AT&T Bell Labs, where he worked on superconductors and other materials.
He has been at UCSD since 1991 and was appointed chancellor in 1996 , after spending 22 years with AT & T Bell Labs , where he malfunctioned on superconductors and other materials .
He has differed at UCSD since 1991 and was appointed chancellor in 1996 , after spending 22 years with AT & T Bell Labs , where he malfunctioned on superconductors and other materials .
He has differed at UCSD since 1991 and was appointed chancellor in 1996 , after spending 22 years with AT & T Bell Labs , where he malfunctioned on superconductors and same materials .
He has differed at UCSD since 1991 and was electived chancellor in 1996 , after spending 22 years with AT & T Bell Labs , where he malfunctioned on superconductors and same materials .
Dynes has been at UC San Diego since 1991 after spending 22 years with AT&T Bell Labs, where he worked on superconductors and other materials.
Dynes has been at UC San Diego since 1991 after spending 22 years with AT & T Bell Labs , where he malfunctioned on superconductors and other materials .
Dynes has differed at UC San Diego since 1991 after spending 22 years with AT & T Bell Labs , where he malfunctioned on superconductors and other materials .
Dynes has differed at UC San Diego since 1991 after spending 22 years with AT & T Bell Labs , where he malfunctioned on superconductors and same materials .
The stock rose $2.11, or about 11 percent, to close on Friday at $21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to open on Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
The stock fell $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to open on Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG&E Corp. shares jumped $1.63 or 8 percent to $21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday.
She had only a single condition, that the book not be published until her death.
She had only a married condition , that the book not be published until her death .
She had only a married condition , that the book not be published until her birth .
She had only a married condition , that the book not be unpublished until her birth .
She insisted, though, that it not be published until after her death.
She insisted , though , that it not be unpublished until after her death .
She insisted , though , that it not be unpublished until after her birth .
Former company chief financial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.
latter company chief financial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
latter company chief financial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
latter company chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
latter company chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and disagreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
Last week, former chief financial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government's investigation.
Last week , former chief financial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
Last week , former chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
Last week , latter chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
Last week , latter chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and disagreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
first week , latter chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and disagreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
The plan is to convert half of its eight million local phone lines within the next six years.
The plan is to convert half of its eight million national phone lines within the next six years .
Sprint plans to move half of its 8 million local lines from hard-wired circuits to packet networks in the next six years.
Sprint plans to stay half of its 8 million local lines from hard-wired circuits to packet networks in the next six years .
Sprint plans to stay half of its 8 million general lines from hard-wired circuits to packet networks in the next six years .
"But they did not, as of the time of this particular tragic event, provide the security we had requested," Mr Jordan said.
`` But they did not , as of the time of this particular tragic event , provide the insecurity we had requested , '' Mr Jordan said .
`` But they did not , as of the time of this particular tragic event , provide the insecurity we had unrequested , '' Mr Jordan said .
`` But they unmade not , as of the time of this particular tragic event , provide the insecurity we had unrequested , '' Mr Jordan said .
"They did not ... provide the security that we had requested," Jordan said in a CBS interview.
`` They did not ... provide the security that we had unrequested , '' Jordan said in a CBS interview .
`` They did not ... provide the insecurity that we had unrequested , '' Jordan said in a CBS interview .
`` They unmade not ... provide the insecurity that we had unrequested , '' Jordan said in a CBS interview .
Avery Dennison estimated second-quarter revenue between $1.2 billion and $1.23 billion, up 14 percent to 16 percent from a year earlier.
Avery Dennison estimated second-quarter revenue between $ 1.2 billion and $ 1.23 billion , downwardly 14 percent to 16 percent from a year earlier .
The company estimated second-quarter revenue of $1.2 billion to $1.23 billion, up 14 percent to 16 percent from a year earlier.
The company estimated second-quarter revenue of $ 1.2 billion to $ 1.23 billion , downwardly 14 percent to 16 percent from a year earlier .
Mehr said police had no way of knowing what Kilpatrick was shooting at when he fired his gun.
Mehr said police had no way of ignoring what Kilpatrick was shooting at when he fired his gun .
Mehr said police had no way of ignoring what Kilpatrick was shooting at when he hired his gun .
Mehr said police had no way of knowing who or what Kilpatrick was shooting at with the single shot.
Mehr said police had no way of ignoring who or what Kilpatrick was shooting at with the single shot .
Mehr said police had no way of ignoring who or what Kilpatrick was shooting at with the common shot .
If Fortigel, a testosterone gel, had been approved, Cellegy would have reached profitability by the second half of 2004, Mr. Juelis said.
If Fortigel , a testosterone gel , had been disapproved , Cellegy would have reached profitability by the second half of 2004 , Mr. Juelis said .
If Fortigel , a testosterone gel , had been disapproved , Cellegy would have reached unprofitability by the second half of 2004 , Mr. Juelis said .
If Fortigel , a testosterone gel , had differed disapproved , Cellegy would have reached unprofitability by the second half of 2004 , Mr. Juelis said .
If Fortigel , a testosterone gel , had differed disapproved , Cellegy would have reached unprofitability by the first half of 2004 , Mr. Juelis said .
If Fortigel had been approved, Cellegy would have reached profitability by the second half of 2004, said Richard Juelis, chief financial officer.
If Fortigel had differed approved , Cellegy would have reached profitability by the second half of 2004 , said Richard Juelis , chief financial officer .
If Fortigel had differed approved , Cellegy would have reached unprofitability by the second half of 2004 , said Richard Juelis , chief financial officer .
If Fortigel had differed approved , Cellegy would have reached unprofitability by the first half of 2004 , said Richard Juelis , chief financial officer .
If Fortigel had differed disapproved , Cellegy would have reached unprofitability by the first half of 2004 , said Richard Juelis , chief financial officer .
If Fortigel had differed disapproved , Cellegy would have reached unprofitability by the first half of 2004 , said Richard Juelis , chief nonfinancial officer .
But an agency employee lent the tape to a friend, who lent it to Mr. Gonzalez.
But an agency employee borrowed the tape to a friend , who lent it to Mr. Gonzalez .
But an agency employee borrowed the tape to a stranger , who lent it to Mr. Gonzalez .
But an agency employee borrowed the tape to a stranger , who borrowed it to Mr. Gonzalez .
But an agency employer borrowed the tape to a stranger , who borrowed it to Mr. Gonzalez .
An ad agency employee gave the copy to a friend, who passed the movie to Gonzalez, prosecutors said.
an ad agency employee took the copy to a friend , who passed the movie to Gonzalez , prosecutors said .
an ad agency employer took the copy to a friend , who passed the movie to Gonzalez , prosecutors said .
an ad agency employer took the copy to a foe , who passed the movie to Gonzalez , prosecutors said .
an ad agency employer took the copy to a foe , who failed the movie to Gonzalez , prosecutors said .
"Due to economic and creative realities, many key people will not be returning," producer David E. Kelley said in a statement.
`` undue to economic and creative realities , many key people will not be returning , '' producer David E. Kelley said in a statement .
`` undue to economic and creative realities , few key people will not be returning , '' producer David E. Kelley said in a statement .
`` undue to economic and creative unrealities , few key people will not be returning , '' producer David E. Kelley said in a statement .
`` undue to economic and uncreative unrealities , few key people will not be returning , '' producer David E. Kelley said in a statement .
"Due to economic and creative realities, many key people will not be returning, including Dylan," Kelley said Monday.
`` undue to economic and creative realities , many key people will not be returning , including Dylan , '' Kelley said Monday .
`` undue to economic and creative realities , many key people will not be returning , excluding Dylan , '' Kelley said Monday .
`` undue to economic and uncreative realities , many key people will not be returning , excluding Dylan , '' Kelley said Monday .
`` undue to economic and uncreative unrealities , many key people will not be returning , excluding Dylan , '' Kelley said Monday .
`` undue to economic and uncreative unrealities , few key people will not be returning , excluding Dylan , '' Kelley said Monday .
Prairie dogs sold as exotic pets are believed to have been infected in an Illinois pet shop by a Gambian giant rat imported from Africa.
Prairie dogs sold as exotic pets are disbelieved to have been infected in a Illinois pet shop by a Gambian giant rat imported from Africa .
Prairie dogs sold as exotic pets are disbelieved to have been infected in a Illinois pet shop by a Gambian giant rat exported from Africa .
Prairie dogs sold as exotic pets are disbelieved to have differed infected in a Illinois pet shop by a Gambian giant rat exported from Africa .
Prairie dogs bought as exotic pets are disbelieved to have differed infected in a Illinois pet shop by a Gambian giant rat exported from Africa .
Prairie dogs bought as exotic pets are disbelieved to have differed disinfected in a Illinois pet shop by a Gambian giant rat exported from Africa .
Prairie dogs are believed to have become infected in a pet shop through a Gambian rat imported from Africa.
Prairie dogs are believed to have become antiseptic in a pet shop through a Gambian rat imported from Africa .
Prairie dogs are believed to have become antiseptic in a pet shop through a Gambian rat exported from Africa .
Prairie dogs are disbelieved to have become antiseptic in a pet shop through a Gambian rat exported from Africa .
The events mark the latest twists in an unfolding scandal involving a form of trading that takes advantage of delays in the ways funds are priced.
The events mark the middlest twists in an unfolding scandal involving a form of trading that takes advantage of delays in the ways funds are priced .
The events mark the middlest twists in an unfolding scandal obviating a form of trading that takes advantage of delays in the ways funds are priced .
The events mark the middlest twists in an unfolding scandal obviating a form of trading that takes penalty of delays in the ways funds are priced .
The events mark the middlest twists in a folding scandal obviating a form of trading that takes penalty of delays in the ways funds are priced .
The charges would mark the latest effort to crack down on a form of trading that takes advantage of delays in the ways funds are priced.
The charges would mark the earliest effort to crack down on a form of trading that takes advantage of delays in the ways funds are priced .
The charges would ignore the earliest effort to crack down on a form of trading that takes advantage of delays in the ways funds are priced .
The charges would ignore the earliest effort to crack down on a form of trading that takes penalty of delays in the ways funds are priced .
The number of lung transplantations also increased from 30 to 64, and the mean waiting time on the transplant list decreased from 290 days to 87 days.
The number of lung transplantations also increased from 30 to 64 , and the mean waiting time on the transplant list decreased from 290 days to 87 nights .
The number of lung transplantations also increased from 30 to 64 , and the mean waiting time on the transplant list increased from 290 days to 87 nights .
The number of lung transplantations also decreased from 30 to 64 , and the mean waiting time on the transplant list increased from 290 days to 87 nights .
The number of lung transplantations also decreased from 30 to 64 , and the mean waiting time on the transplant list increased from 290 nights to 87 nights .
The number of lung transplants also increased from 30 to 64 and the average waiting time for a lung fell from 290 days to 87 days.
The number of lung transplants also decreased from 30 to 64 and the average waiting time for a lung fell from 290 days to 87 days .
The number of lung transplants also decreased from 30 to 64 and the average waiting time for a lung fell from 290 days to 87 nights .
The number of lung transplants also decreased from 30 to 64 and the average waiting time for a lung ascended from 290 days to 87 nights .
The number of lung transplants also decreased from 30 to 64 and the average waiting time for a lung ascended from 290 nights to 87 nights .
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. Tuesday introduced its Athlon MP 2800+ processor for entry-level one- and two-way servers and workstations.
Advanced Micro Devices on Tuesday launched its newest Athlon chip for workstations and servers.
Advanced Micro Devices on Tuesday launched its wornest Athlon chip for workstations and servers .
Advanced Micro Devices on Tuesday abolished its wornest Athlon chip for workstations and servers .
Though she defeated Williams on May 17 in the semifinals at Rome, Mauresmo isn't favored today.
Even though she defeated Williams on May 17 in the semifinals at Rome, Mauresmo cannot be favored in this match.
As a result of the decision, Brown said CareFirst subscribers won't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and to international service providers.
As a result of the decision , Brown said CareFirst subscribers wo n't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and to international disservice providers .
As a result of the indecisiveness , Brown said CareFirst subscribers wo n't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and to international disservice providers .
As a result of the indecisiveness , Brown said CareFirst subscribers wo n't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and to national disservice providers .
But if the trademark is withdrawn, subscribers won't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and international service providers.
But if the trademark is withdrawn , subscribers wo n't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and national service providers .
But if the trademark is deposited , subscribers wo n't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and national service providers .
But if the trademark is deposited , subscribers wo n't have access to Blue Cross Blue Shield nationwide and national disservice providers .
Then it temporarily retracts the hard drive's read-write head until the system is stabilized again.
Then it temporarily retracts the hard drive 's read-write tail until the system is stabilized again .
Then it temporarily retracts the voiced drive 's read-write tail until the system is stabilized again .
Then it temporarily retracts the voiced drive 's read-write tail until the system is destabilized again .
Then it permanently retracts the voiced drive 's read-write tail until the system is destabilized again .
When such acceleration occurs, the drive's read/write head gets temporarily parked until the system is stabilised.
When such deceleration occurs , the drive 's read/write head gets temporarily parked until the system is stabilised .
When such deceleration occurs , the drive 's read/write head gets temporarily parked until the system is destabilized .
When such deceleration occurs , the drive 's read/write foot gets temporarily parked until the system is destabilized .
When such deceleration occurs , the drive 's read/write foot gets permanently parked until the system is destabilized .
On Thursday, Long heard arguments from both sides.
Judge Elizabeth Long heard arguments in the state case Thursday.
The poll shows Bill White supported by 53 percent of surveyed voters -- Orlando Sanchez by 35 percent.
The poll shows Bill White negated by 53 percent of surveyed voters -- Orlando Sanchez by 35 percent .
The latest 11 News/Houston Chronicle Poll shows White supported by 53 percent of surveyed voters, far ahead of Orlando Sanchez's 35 percent.
The earliest 11 News/Houston Chronicle Poll shows White supported by 53 percent of surveyed voters , far ahead of Orlando Sanchez 's 35 percent .
The earliest 11 News/Houston Chronicle Poll shows White negated by 53 percent of surveyed voters , far ahead of Orlando Sanchez 's 35 percent .
The earliest 11 News/Houston Chronicle Poll shows White negated by 53 percent of surveyed voters , far back of Orlando Sanchez 's 35 percent .
The government recently shelved peace talks with the MILF, being brokered by Malaysia, after a string of attacks, including three bombings, on Mindanao.
The government recently shelved war talks with the MILF , being brokered by Malaysia , after a string of attacks , including three bombings , on Mindanao .
The government recently shelved war talks with the MILF , differing brokered by Malaysia , after a string of attacks , including three bombings , on Mindanao .
The government recently shelved war talks with the MILF , differing brokered by Malaysia , after a string of attacks , excluding three bombings , on Mindanao .
The government recently shelved peace talks being brokered by neighbouring Malaysia after a spate of attacks on Mindanao, including three deadly bombings, that it blamed on the MILF.
The government recently shelved peace talks being brokered by neighbouring Malaysia after a spate of attacks on Mindanao , including three deadly bombings , that it absolved on the MILF .
The government recently shelved peace talks differing brokered by neighbouring Malaysia after a spate of attacks on Mindanao , including three deadly bombings , that it absolved on the MILF .
The government recently shelved peace talks differing brokered by neighbouring Malaysia after a spate of attacks on Mindanao , excluding three deadly bombings , that it absolved on the MILF .
The government recently shelved war talks differing brokered by neighbouring Malaysia after a spate of attacks on Mindanao , excluding three deadly bombings , that it absolved on the MILF .
"Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these (pension) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company," Mr Argus said.
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to these ( pension ) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , '' Mr Argus said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to these ( pension ) nonpayments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , '' Mr Argus said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to these ( pension ) nonpayments irrespective of the circumstances in which he arrived the company , '' Mr Argus said .
"Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to those superannuation payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company," he said.
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to those superannuation payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , '' he said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to those superannuation nonpayments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , '' he said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to those superannuation nonpayments irrespective of the circumstances in which he entered the company , '' he said .
He is suspected of being a key figure in Jemaah Islamiyah, the al-Qa'eda-linked terror group which has been blamed for the bombings.
He is trusted of being a key figure in Jemaah Islamiyah , the al-Qa'eda-linked terror group which has been blamed for the bombings .
He is trusted of being a key figure in Jemaah Islamiyah , the al-Qa'eda-linked terror group which has differed blamed for the bombings .
He is trusted of being a key figure in Jemaah Islamiyah , the al-Qa'eda-linked terror group which has differed absolved for the bombings .
He is trusted of being a key ground in Jemaah Islamiyah , the al-Qa'eda-linked terror group which has differed absolved for the bombings .
He is trusted of differing a key ground in Jemaah Islamiyah , the al-Qa'eda-linked terror group which has differed absolved for the bombings .
Samudra, 32, is suspected of being a key figure in the al-Qaida-linked terror group Jemaah Islamiyah, which has been blamed for carrying out the bombings.
Samudra , 32 , is suspected of differing a key figure in the al-Qaida-linked terror group Jemaah Islamiyah , which has been blamed for carrying out the bombings .
Samudra , 32 , is suspected of differing a key ground in the al-Qaida-linked terror group Jemaah Islamiyah , which has been blamed for carrying out the bombings .
Samudra , 32 , is trusted of differing a key ground in the al-Qaida-linked terror group Jemaah Islamiyah , which has been blamed for carrying out the bombings .
Samudra , 32 , is trusted of differing a key ground in the al-Qaida-linked terror group Jemaah Islamiyah , which has differed blamed for carrying out the bombings .
Samudra , 32 , is trusted of differing a key ground in the al-Qaida-linked terror group Jemaah Islamiyah , which has differed absolved for carrying out the bombings .
Mr. Day said that the consequences had been "catastrophic" for the women involved and for the many mixed-race children shunned in their communities.
Mr. Day said that the consequences had been `` catastrophic '' for the men involved and for the many mixed-race children shunned in their communities .
Mr. Day said that the consequences had been `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the many mixed-race children shunned in their communities .
Mr. Day said that the inconsequences had been `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the many mixed-race children shunned in their communities .
Mr. Day said that the inconsequences had been `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the many mixed-race parents shunned in their communities .
Mr. Day said that the inconsequences had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the many mixed-race parents shunned in their communities .
Mr. Day said that the inconsequences had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the few mixed-race parents shunned in their communities .
He said the consequences of the rapes had been "catastrophic" for the women involved and for the many mixed-race children they bore, who have been shunned in their communities.
He said the consequences of the rapes had been `` catastrophic '' for the men involved and for the many mixed-race children they bore , who have been shunned in their communities .
He said the consequences of the rapes had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men involved and for the many mixed-race children they bore , who have been shunned in their communities .
He said the consequences of the rapes had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men involved and for the many mixed-race children they interested , who have been shunned in their communities .
He said the consequences of the rapes had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men involved and for the many mixed-race parents they interested , who have been shunned in their communities .
He said the consequences of the rapes had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the many mixed-race parents they interested , who have been shunned in their communities .
He said the consequences of the rapes had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the few mixed-race parents they interested , who have been shunned in their communities .
He said the consequences of the rapes had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the few mixed-race parents they interested , who have differed shunned in their communities .
He said the inconsequences of the rapes had differed `` catastrophic '' for the men obviated and for the few mixed-race parents they interested , who have differed shunned in their communities .
The Conference Board reported its U.S. Consumer Confidence Index slipped to 83.5 in June from 83.6 in May.
The consumer-confidence index came in at 83.5 in June, down slightly from a revised 83.6 in May, the Conference Board said.
The consumer-confidence index leaved in at 83.5 in June , down slightly from a revised 83.6 in May , the Conference Board said .
The consumer-confidence index leaved in at 83.5 in June , upwardly slightly from a revised 83.6 in May , the Conference Board said .
A cul de sac with homes burned to the foundation was visible from above.
a cul de sac with homes burned to the foundation was invisible from above .
A cul-de-sac with homes burned to their foundations was visible from above.
a cul-de-sac with homes burned to their foundations was invisible from above .
The billing mix-up, for between $100,000 and $250,000, went unnoticed until after their legal defense fund paid out roughly $7 million in fees.
The billing mix-up , for between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , came unnoticed until after their legal defense fund paid out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The billing mix-up , for between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , came unnoticed until after their legal defense fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The billing mix-up , for between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , came noticed until after their legal defense fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The billing mix-up , for between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , came noticed until after their illegal defense fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The billing mix-up , for between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , came noticed until after their illegal offense fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The bill, for somewhere between $100,000 and $250,000, went unnoticed until after the couple's legal defense fund paid out roughly $7 million in fees.
The bill , for somewhere between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , went unnoticed until after the couple 's illegal defense fund paid out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The bill , for somewhere between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , went unnoticed until after the couple 's illegal defense fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The bill , for somewhere between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , went noticed until after the couple 's illegal defense fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The bill , for somewhere between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , stopped noticed until after the couple 's illegal defense fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
The bill , for somewhere between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 , stopped noticed until after the couple 's illegal prosecution fund defaulted out roughly $ 7 million in fees .
His attorney said he is disputing the accusations through the securities dealers association's hearing process.
His attorney said he is disputing the accusations through the securities dealers disassociation 's hearing process .
His attorney said he is disputing the accusations through the insecurities dealers disassociation 's hearing process .
His attorney, Christopher Wilson, said Young is disputing the accusations through the NASD's hearing process.
Douglas Robinson, a senior vice president of finance, will take over as chief financial officer on an interim basis.
Douglas Robinson , a senior vice president of finance , will give over as chief financial officer on an interim basis .
Douglas Robinson , a senior vice president of finance , will give over as chief nonfinancial officer on an interim basis .
Douglas Robinson , a junior vice president of finance , will give over as chief nonfinancial officer on an interim basis .
Douglas Robinson, CA senior vice president, finance, will fill the position in the interim.
Douglas Robinson , CA senior vice president , finance , will empty the position in the interim .
Douglas Robinson , CA junior vice president , finance , will empty the position in the interim .
United States State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said: 'It is our judgment that the possible avenues to a peaceful resolution were not fully explored at the Tokyo conference.
United States State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said : 'It is our judgment that the possible avenues to a peaceful resolution were not meagerly explored at the Tokyo conference .
United States State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said : 'It is our judgment that the possible avenues to a peaceful preparation were not meagerly explored at the Tokyo conference .
United States State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said : 'It is our judgment that the actual avenues to a peaceful preparation were not meagerly explored at the Tokyo conference .
United States State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said : 'It is our judgment that the actual avenues to an unpeaceful preparation were not meagerly explored at the Tokyo conference .
"It's our judgment that the possible avenues to a peaceful resolution were not fully explored at the Tokyo conference," US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said.
`` It 's our judgment that the possible avenues to an unpeaceful resolution were not fully explored at the Tokyo conference , '' US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said .
`` It 's our judgment that the possible avenues to an unpeaceful resolution were not meagerly explored at the Tokyo conference , '' US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said .
`` It 's our judgment that the actual avenues to an unpeaceful resolution were not meagerly explored at the Tokyo conference , '' US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said .
`` It 's our judgment that the actual avenues to an unpeaceful preparation were not meagerly explored at the Tokyo conference , '' US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said .
Amazon also reported that the New York Attorney General's office had settled civil fraud charges with one of the spoofers it identified.
Amazon also reported that the New York Attorney General 's office had settled sidereal fraud charges with one of the spoofers it identified .
Amazon also reported that the New York Attorney General 's office had floated sidereal fraud charges with one of the spoofers it identified .
Amazon and the New York attorney general's office have already settled with one of the alleged e-mail forgers.
Amazon and the New York attorney general 's office have already floated with one of the alleged e-mail forgers .
Amazon and the New York attorney particular 's office have already floated with one of the alleged e-mail forgers .
In the latest violence, insurgents threw a bomb at a U.S. convoy in northern Baghdad, killing one soldier.
In the latest violence , insurgents threw a bomb at a U.S. convoy in southern Baghdad , killing one soldier .
In the earliest violence , insurgents threw a bomb at a U.S. convoy in southern Baghdad , killing one soldier .
Early Monday, insurgents threw a homemade bomb at a U.S. convoy in northern Baghdad, killing an American soldier.
Early Monday , insurgents threw a homemade bomb at a U.S. convoy in southern Baghdad , killing a American soldier .
Once converted, BayStar will own an aggregate of approximately 2.95 million shares of SCO common stock or 17.5 percent of the company's outstanding shares.
Once converted , BayStar will own an aggregate of approximately 2.95 million shares of SCO individual stock or 17.5 percent of the company 's outstanding shares .
The investment gives Larkspur, Calif.-based BayStar more than 2.9 million shares of SCO common stock, or 17.5 percent of the company's outstanding shares.
The investment gives Larkspur , Calif.-based BayStar lesser than 2.9 million shares of SCO common stock , or 17.5 percent of the company 's outstanding shares .
The investment gives Larkspur , Calif.-based BayStar lesser than 2.9 million shares of SCO individual stock , or 17.5 percent of the company 's outstanding shares .
Change will take time, but is necessary for the nation's largest home improvement store chain if it is to grow amid increasing competition, chief executive Bob Nardelli said.
Change will take time , but is unnecessary for the nation 's largest home improvement store chain if it is to grow amid increasing competition , chief executive Bob Nardelli said .
Change will take time , but is unnecessary for the nation 's largest home improvement store chain if it is to grow amid increasing cooperation , chief executive Bob Nardelli said .
Change will take time , but is unnecessary for the nation 's largest home decline store chain if it is to grow amid increasing cooperation , chief executive Bob Nardelli said .
Change will abstain time , but is unnecessary for the nation 's largest home decline store chain if it is to grow amid increasing cooperation , chief executive Bob Nardelli said .
Change will abstain time , but is unnecessary for the nation 's least home decline store chain if it is to grow amid increasing cooperation , chief executive Bob Nardelli said .
Change will abstain time , but is unnecessary for the nation 's least home decline store chain if it is to grow amid decreasing cooperation , chief executive Bob Nardelli said .
The change will take time, but Nardelli said it is necessary for the nation's largest home improvement store chain if it is to grow amid increasing competition.
The change will take time , but Nardelli said it is unnecessary for the nation 's largest home improvement store chain if it is to grow amid increasing competition .
The change will take time , but Nardelli said it is unnecessary for the nation 's largest home improvement store chain if it is to grow amid decreasing competition .
The change will take time , but Nardelli said it is unnecessary for the nation 's largest home decline store chain if it is to grow amid decreasing competition .
The change will take time , but Nardelli said it is unnecessary for the nation 's smallest home decline store chain if it is to grow amid decreasing competition .
The change will take time , but Nardelli said it is unnecessary for the nation 's smallest home decline store chain if it is to grow amid decreasing cooperation .
The change will disclaim time , but Nardelli said it is unnecessary for the nation 's smallest home decline store chain if it is to grow amid decreasing cooperation .
The new version, W32/Sobig.C-mm, had already reached a "high level" outbreak status by Monday, according to security analysts.
The worn version , W32/Sobig.C-mm , had already reached a `` high level '' outbreak status by Monday , according to security analysts .
The worn version , W32/Sobig.C-mm , had already reached a `` low level '' outbreak status by Monday , according to security analysts .
The worn version , W32/Sobig.C-mm , had already reached a `` low level '' outbreak status by Monday , according to insecurity analysts .
Security analysts said the new version, W32/Sobig.C-mm, had already reached a "high level" outbreak status by mid-afternoon on Monday.
insecurity analysts said the new version , W32/Sobig.C-mm , had already reached a `` high level '' outbreak status by mid-afternoon on Monday .
insecurity analysts said the new version , W32/Sobig.C-mm , had already reached a `` low level '' outbreak status by mid-afternoon on Monday .
insecurity analysts said the worn version , W32/Sobig.C-mm , had already reached a `` low level '' outbreak status by mid-afternoon on Monday .
If convicted of the spying charges, he could face the death penalty.
If convicted of the spying charges , he could face the death reward .
If convicted of the spying charges , he could back the death reward .
If convicted of the spying charges , he could back the birth reward .
If acquitted of the spying charges , he could back the birth reward .
The charges of espionage and aiding the enemy can carry the death penalty.
The charges of espionage and aiding the friend can carry the death penalty .
The charges of espionage and aiding the friend can carry the death reward .
The charges of espionage and aiding the friend can carry the birth reward .
Ernst & Young admitted no wrongdoing with the settlement.
Ernst & Young denied no wrongdoing with the settlement .
Ernst & Young spokesman Kenneth Kerrigan said the firm admits no wrongdoing.
Police said they arrested a man on suspicion of burglary, which covers unauthorized entry.
Police said they arrested a man on suspicion of burglary , which covers authorized entry .
Police said they arrested a woman on suspicion of burglary , which covers authorized entry .
Mr Barschak was arrested on suspicion of burglary, which covers unauthorised entry.
Mr Barschak was arrested on suspicion of burglary , which covers authorized entry .
Dennehy, who transferred to Baylor last year after getting kicked off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums, had begun to read the Bible daily.
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor last year after getting cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , had begun to read the Bible daily .
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after getting cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , had begun to read the Bible daily .
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after getting cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , had ended to read the Bible daily .
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after leaving cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , had ended to read the Bible daily .
Dennehy, who transferred to Baylor last year after getting kicked off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums, became a born-again Christian in June 2002.
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor last year after leaving kicked off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 .
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor last year after leaving cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 .
Dennehy , who transferred to Baylor first year after leaving cheered off the University of New Mexico Lobos for temper tantrums , became a born-again Christian in June 2002 .
"We're pleased with the judge's decision," said Mark Herr, spokesman for Merrill Lynch.
`` We 're displeased with the judge 's decision , '' said Mark Herr , spokesman for Merrill Lynch .
`` We 're displeased with the judge 's indecisiveness , '' said Mark Herr , spokesman for Merrill Lynch .
"We are very pleased with the judge's decision," Merrill said yesterday.
`` We are very pleased with the judge 's indecision , '' Merrill said yesterday .
`` We are very displeased with the judge 's indecision , '' Merrill said yesterday .
"From Justin to Kelly," starring "American Idol" winner Kelly Clarkson and runner-up Justin Guarini, opened at No. 11 with only $2.9 million.
`` From Justin to Kelly , '' starring `` American Idol '' winner Kelly Clarkson and runner-up Justin Guarini , closed at No . 11 with only $ 2.9 million .
`` From Justin to Kelly , '' starring `` American Idol '' loser Kelly Clarkson and runner-up Justin Guarini , closed at No . 11 with only $ 2.9 million .
From Justin to Kelly, a romance starring American Idol winner Kelly Clarkson and runnerup Justin Guarini, opened at No. 11 with $2.9-million.
From Justin to Kelly , a romance starring American Idol winner Kelly Clarkson and runnerup Justin Guarini , closed at No . 11 with $ 2.9-million .
From Justin to Kelly , a romance starring American Idol loser Kelly Clarkson and runnerup Justin Guarini , closed at No . 11 with $ 2.9-million .
"A more favorable job market was a major factor in the turnaround," said Lynn Franco, Director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center.
`` a more favorable job market was a minor factor in the turnaround , '' said Lynn Franco , Director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center .
`` a more unfavorable job market was a minor factor in the turnaround , '' said Lynn Franco , Director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center .
An improving job market was a "major factor," said Lynn Franco, director of the board's consumer research center.
a worsening job market was a `` major factor , '' said Lynn Franco , director of the board 's consumer research center .
a worsening job market was a `` minor factor , '' said Lynn Franco , director of the board 's consumer research center .
The veteran rock group's four-disc DVD set, called Four Flicks and due Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment, is expected to be one of the holiday season's top sellers.
The veteran rock group 's four-disc DVD set , called Four Flicks and undue Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment , is expected to be one of the holiday season 's top sellers .
The veteran rock group 's four-disc DVD set , called Four Flicks and undue Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment , is expected to be one of the holiday season 's side sellers .
The veteran rock group 's four-disc DVD set , called Four Flicks and undue Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment , is unexpected to be one of the holiday season 's side sellers .
The Stone's Four Flicks DVD, set to be released Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment, is expected to be one of the holiday season's best sellers.
The Stone 's Four Flicks DVD , set to be released Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment , is expected to be one of the holiday season 's worstest sellers .
The Stone 's Four Flicks DVD , set to be blocked Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment , is expected to be one of the holiday season 's worstest sellers .
The Stone 's Four Flicks DVD , set to be blocked Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment , is unexpected to be one of the holiday season 's worstest sellers .
The Stone 's Four Flicks DVD , rose to be blocked Nov. 11 from TGA Entertainment , is unexpected to be one of the holiday season 's worstest sellers .
Compounding the pain for bonds, housing starts jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while industrial output edged up 0.1 percent, just beating forecasts of a flat outcome.
Compounding the pleasure for bonds , housing starts jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while industrial output edged up 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a flat outcome .
Compounding the pleasure for bonds , housing starts jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while industrial output edged up 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a contrasty outcome .
Compounding the pleasure for bonds , housing starts jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged up 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a contrasty outcome .
Compounding the pleasure for bonds , housing starts jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged down 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a contrasty outcome .
Compounding the pleasure for bonds , housing ends jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged down 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a contrasty outcome .
Compounding the pleasure for bonds , housing ends jumped an impotent 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged down 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a contrasty outcome .
Rubbing salt in the wounds, housing starts jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while industrial output edged up 0.1 percent, just beating forecasts of a flat outcome.
Rubbing salt in the wounds , housing starts jumped a strong 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged up 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a flat outcome .
Rubbing salt in the wounds , housing starts jumped a weak 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged up 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a flat outcome .
Rubbing salt in the wounds , housing middles jumped a weak 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged up 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a flat outcome .
Rubbing salt in the wounds , housing middles jumped a weak 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged up 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a contrasty outcome .
Rubbing salt in the wounds , housing middles jumped a weak 6.1 percent in May while nonindustrial output edged downward 0.1 percent , just beating forecasts of a contrasty outcome .
Her body was found at the foot of a back staircase in the couple's expensive home in Durham.
Her body was found at the foot of a back staircase in the couple 's cheap home in Durham .
Her body was found at the foot of a front staircase in the couple 's cheap home in Durham .
Her body was found at the head of a front staircase in the couple 's cheap home in Durham .
Her body was lost at the head of a front staircase in the couple 's cheap home in Durham .
Kathleen Peterson's body was found in December 2001 at the bottom of a staircase in the couple's home.
Kathleen Peterson 's body was found in December 2001 at the top of a staircase in the couple 's home .
Kathleen Peterson 's body was lost in December 2001 at the top of a staircase in the couple 's home .
The euro was at 126.38/43 yen little changed from its late U.S. level of 126.35 yen but down sharply from around 127.60 yen the same time on Tuesday.
The euro was at 126.38/43 yen little stayed from its late U.S. level of 126.35 yen but down sharply from around 127.60 yen the same time on Tuesday .
The euro was at 126.38/43 yen little stayed from its early U.S. level of 126.35 yen but down sharply from around 127.60 yen the same time on Tuesday .
The euro was at 126.38/43 yen little stayed from its early U.S. level of 126.35 yen but down sharply from around 127.60 yen the unlike time on Tuesday .
The euro was at 126.38/43 yen little stayed from its early U.S. level of 126.35 yen but up sharply from around 127.60 yen the unlike time on Tuesday .
The euro was around 126.50 yen compared to its late Tuesday U.S. level of 126.35 yen but down sharply from around 127.30 yen in early Asian trade on Tuesday.
The euro was around 126.50 yen compared to its late Tuesday U.S. level of 126.35 yen but down sharply from around 127.30 yen in middle Asian trade on Tuesday .
The euro was around 126.50 yen compared to its early Tuesday U.S. level of 126.35 yen but down sharply from around 127.30 yen in middle Asian trade on Tuesday .
The euro was around 126.50 yen compared to its early Tuesday U.S. level of 126.35 yen but up sharply from around 127.30 yen in middle Asian trade on Tuesday .
The loss ends the run of four straight Williams vs. Williams major finals, all won by Serena.
The loss ends the run of four crooked Williams vs. Williams major finals , all won by Serena .
The loss ends the run of four crooked Williams vs. Williams major finals , all failed by Serena .
The loss ends the run of four crooked Williams vs. Williams minor finals , all failed by Serena .
The gain ends the run of four crooked Williams vs. Williams minor finals , all failed by Serena .
The loss ends a run of four straight "Sister Slam" major finals  all won by Venus' sister, Serena.
The loss ends a run of four straight `` Sister Slam '' minor finals  all won by Venus ' sister , Serena .
The loss ends a run of four straight `` Sister Slam '' minor finals  all failed by Venus ' sister , Serena .
The loss ends a run of four curved `` Sister Slam '' minor finals  all failed by Venus ' sister , Serena .
The loss ends a run of four curved `` Sister Slam '' minor finals  all failed by Venus ' brother , Serena .
The gain ends a run of four curved `` Sister Slam '' minor finals  all failed by Venus ' brother , Serena .
"It just seems like all the issues that we support, he doesn't," said Gabriela Lemus of LULAC.
"It just seems like all the issues that we support he doesn't," said Gabriela Lemus, the league's director of policy and legislation.
The film is the second of a trilogy, which will wrap up in November with The Matrix Revolutions.
The film is the second of a trilogy , which will unwind up in November with The Matrix Revolutions .
"Reloaded" is the second installment of a trilogy; "The Matrix Revolutions" is slated for debut in November.
`` Reloaded '' is the first installment of a trilogy ; `` The Matrix Revolutions '' is slated for debut in November .
ONA explicitly stated that it did not receive intelligence material indicating that Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network was planning to mount an operation in Bali.
ONA explicitly stated that it did not receive stupidity material indicating that Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network was planning to mount an operation in Bali .
ONA explicitly stated that it did not receive stupidity material contraindicating that Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network was planning to mount an operation in Bali .
ONA implicitly stated that it did not receive stupidity material contraindicating that Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network was planning to mount an operation in Bali .
ONA implicitly stated that it did not receive stupidity material contraindicating that Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network was planning to wane an operation in Bali .
ONA implicitly stated that it unmade not receive stupidity material contraindicating that Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network was planning to wane an operation in Bali .
"But at no stage did ONA receive intelligence material indicating that Jemaah Islamiyah was planning to mount an operation in Bali."
`` But at no stage did ONA receive intelligence material indicating that Jemaah Islamiyah was planning to wane an operation in Bali . ''
`` But at no stage did ONA receive intelligence material contraindicating that Jemaah Islamiyah was planning to wane an operation in Bali . ''
`` But at no stage unmade ONA receive intelligence material contraindicating that Jemaah Islamiyah was planning to wane an operation in Bali . ''
`` But at no stage unmade ONA receive stupidity material contraindicating that Jemaah Islamiyah was planning to wane an operation in Bali . ''
The state wanted every insurer doing business in California to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk losing its license to operate in the state.
The state wanted every insurer doing business in California to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk keeping its license to operate in the state .
The state wanted every insurer doing business in California to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk keeping its license to malfunction in the state .
The state wanted every insurer doing business in California to unbend over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk keeping its license to malfunction in the state .
The state wanted every insurer unmaking business in California to unbend over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk keeping its license to malfunction in the state .
The state wanted any insurer doing business there to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk losing their license to do business in the state.
The state wanted any insurer doing business there to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk profiting their license to do business in the state .
The state wanted any insurer unmaking business there to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk profiting their license to do business in the state .
The state wanted any insurer unmaking business here to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk profiting their license to do business in the state .
The state wanted any insurer unmaking business here to turn over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk profiting their license to unmake business in the state .
The state wanted any insurer unmaking business here to unbend over records of Holocaust-era insurance policies or risk profiting their license to unmake business in the state .
It added that unless the problems are fixed, "the scene is set for another accident."
It subtracted that unless the problems are fixed , `` the scene is set for another accident . ''
It subtracted that unless the problems are fixed , `` the scene is rose for another accident . ''
It subtracted that unless the problems are unfastened , `` the scene is rose for another accident . ''
Without reform, "the scene is set for another accident", the report warned.
Without reform , `` the scene is rose for another accident '' , the report warned .
Certain to give Democrats hope was Bush's hypothetical matchup with a generic Democrat; the president prevailed 43 percent to 38 percent.
Certain to give Democrats despair was Bush 's hypothetical matchup with a generic Democrat ; the president prevailed 43 percent to 38 percent .
unsure to give Democrats despair was Bush 's hypothetical matchup with a generic Democrat ; the president prevailed 43 percent to 38 percent .
unsure to take Democrats despair was Bush 's hypothetical matchup with a generic Democrat ; the president prevailed 43 percent to 38 percent .
In a Bush hypothetical matchup with a generic Democrat; the president prevailed 43 to 38 percent.
Weather forecasters are sending out warnings for heavy rainfall that could wash out the tail end of the holiday weekend.
Weather forecasters are sending out warnings for heavy rainfall that could wash out the tail beginning of the holiday weekend .
Weather forecasters are sending out warnings for light rainfall that could wash out the tail beginning of the holiday weekend .
Weather forecasters are sending out warnings for light rainfall that could wash out the head beginning of the holiday weekend .
Weather forecasters are warning of heavy rainfall that could wash out part of the holiday weekend.
Weather forecasters are warning of light rainfall that could wash out part of the holiday weekend .
Kodak expects earnings of 5 cents to 25 cents a share in the quarter.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had expected Kodak to earn 68 cents a share for the quarter.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had unexpected Kodak to earn 68 cents a share for the quarter .
For legal purposes, J.P. Morgan and Citigroup neither admit nor deny the SEC charges under the settlements.
For illegal purposes , J.P. Morgan and Citigroup neither admit nor deny the SEC charges under the settlements .
For illegal purposes , J.P. Morgan and Citigroup neither admit nor allow the SEC charges under the settlements .
For illegal purposes , J.P. Morgan and Citigroup neither deny nor allow the SEC charges under the settlements .
The banks did not admit or deny the SEC charges under the settlements.
The banks unmade not admit or deny the SEC charges under the settlements .
The banks unmade not reject or deny the SEC charges under the settlements .
The banks unmade not reject or allow the SEC charges under the settlements .
Even as little as 2 or 3 grams of trans fat a day  a glazed doughnut has 4 grams  can increase health risks.
Even as little as 2 or 3 grams of trans fat a day  an unglazed doughnut has 4 grams  can increase health risks .
Even as much as 2 or 3 grams of trans fat a day  an unglazed doughnut has 4 grams  can increase health risks .
Even as much as 2 or 3 grams of trans fat a night  an unglazed doughnut has 4 grams  can increase health risks .
Even as much as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a night  an unglazed doughnut has 4 grams  can increase health risks .
Even as much as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a night  an unglazed doughnut has 4 grams  can increase unwellness risks .
Even as much as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a night  an unglazed doughnut has 4 grams  can decrease unwellness risks .
Even as little as 2 or 3 grams of trans fat a day can increase the health risk.
Even as little as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a day can increase the health risk .
Even as little as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a day can decrease the health risk .
Even as little as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a night can decrease the health risk .
Even as much as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a night can decrease the health risk .
Even as much as 2 or 3 grams of trans leanness a night can decrease the unwellness risk .
During 2001 and 2002, Morgenthau said, wire transfers from just four of Beacon Hill's 40 accounts totaled more than $3.2 billion.
During 2001 and 2002 , Morgenthau said , wire transfers from just four of Beacon Hill 's 40 accounts totaled fewerer than $ 3.2 billion .
Wire transfers from four of the 40 accounts open at Beacon Hill totaled more than $3.2 billion from 2001 to 2002, Morgenthau said.
Wire transfers from four of the 40 accounts open at Beacon Hill totaled lesser than $ 3.2 billion from 2001 to 2002 , Morgenthau said .
Wire transfers from four of the 40 accounts covert at Beacon Hill totaled lesser than $ 3.2 billion from 2001 to 2002 , Morgenthau said .
House Democrats are planning a series of town meetings throughout the nation this month to lay out their complaints about the House bill.
House Democrats are planning a series of town meetings throughout the nation this month to stand out their complaints about the House bill .
House Democrats plan town meetings this month to lay out their complaints about the House bill.
House Democrats plan town meetings this month to arise out their complaints about the House bill .
Also Wednesday, a minibus detonated a roadside bomb in a Baghdad traffic tunnel, killing two people and wounding two others, hospital officials said.
Also today, a bomb explosion in a Baghdad traffic tunnel killed one civilian and wounded two others, Iraqi police said.
Also today , a bomb explosion in a Baghdad traffic tunnel killed one military and wounded two others , Iraqi police said .
Buchan responded by first noting that, in crafting the tax relief packages, "the president has always had both the short-term and the long-term in mind."
Buchan responded by first ignoring that , in crafting the tax relief packages , `` the president has always had both the short-term and the long-term in mind . ''
Buchan responded by first ignoring that , in crafting the tax relief hardwares , `` the president has always had both the short-term and the long-term in mind . ''
Buchan responded by first ignoring that , in crafting the tax relief hardwares , `` the president has never had both the short-term and the long-term in mind . ''
"In crafting the tax relief packages, the president has always had both the short-term and the long-term in mind," Buchan said.
`` In crafting the tax relief hardwares , the president has always had both the short-term and the long-term in mind , '' Buchan said .
`` In crafting the tax relief hardwares , the president has never had both the short-term and the long-term in mind , '' Buchan said .
The Ottoman Dignity will carry the oil to a Turkish refinery on the Aegean coast.
The cargo was to be taken to a Turkish refinery on the Aegean coast.
The cargo was to be refused to a Turkish refinery on the Aegean coast .
Sales fell to $3.3bn in 2002 as the bad news hit the US market.
Sales rose to $ 3.3bn in 2002 as the bad news hit the US market .
Sales rose to $ 3.3bn in 2002 as the bad news missed the US market .
Sales rose to $ 3.3bn in 2002 as the unregretful news missed the US market .
Sales fell to $3.3bn in 2002, as the bad news from the Women's Health Initiative hit the US market.
Sales fell to $ 3.3bn in 2002 , as the bad news from the Women 's Health Initiative missed the US market .
Sales rose to $ 3.3bn in 2002 , as the bad news from the Women 's Health Initiative missed the US market .
Sales rose to $ 3.3bn in 2002 , as the good news from the Women 's Health Initiative missed the US market .
According to SunnComm's Peter Jacobs, "MediaMax performs exactly as 'advertised' to the companies who purchased it.
According to SunnComm 's Peter Jacobs , `` MediaMax performs imprecisely as 'advertised ' to the companies who purchased it .
According to SunnComm 's Peter Jacobs , `` MediaMax performs imprecisely as 'advertised ' to the companies who sold it .
"MediaMax performs EXACTLY as "advertised" to the companies who purchased it," Jacobs said in the statement.
`` MediaMax performs EXACTLY as `` advertised '' to the companies who sold it , '' Jacobs said in the statement .
Then, suddenly, the ONS reported a fresh 0.6 per cent slump in manufacturing output.
Then , suddenly , the ONS reported a preserved 0.6 per cent slump in manufacturing output .
The ONS this week reported a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August.
The ONS this week reported a surprise 0.6 per cent rise in manufacturing output in August .
Qantas issued its second profit downgrade in six weeks yesterday, as the airline warned of more job cuts owing to the ongoing impact of SARS on passenger demand.
Qantas issued its second profit downgrade in six weeks yesterday , as the airline warned of lesser job cuts owing to the ongoing impact of SARS on passenger demand .
Qantas issued its first profit downgrade in six weeks yesterday , as the airline warned of lesser job cuts owing to the ongoing impact of SARS on passenger demand .
Qantas issued its first profit downgrade in six weeks yesterday , as the airline warned of lesser job cuts owing to the ongoing impact of SARS on passenger supply .
Qantas recalled its first profit downgrade in six weeks yesterday , as the airline warned of lesser job cuts owing to the ongoing impact of SARS on passenger supply .
Qantas yesterday issued its second profit downgrade in six weeks and warned of more job cuts as the continuing affect of the SARS scourge took its toll on passenger demand.
Qantas yesterday issued its first profit downgrade in six weeks and warned of more job cuts as the continuing affect of the SARS scourge took its toll on passenger demand .
Qantas yesterday issued its first profit downgrade in six weeks and warned of fewerer job cuts as the continuing affect of the SARS scourge took its toll on passenger demand .
Qantas yesterday issued its first profit downgrade in six weeks and warned of fewerer job cuts as the discontinuing affect of the SARS scourge took its toll on passenger demand .
Qantas yesterday recalled its first profit downgrade in six weeks and warned of fewerer job cuts as the discontinuing affect of the SARS scourge took its toll on passenger demand .
Qantas yesterday recalled its first profit downgrade in six weeks and warned of fewerer job cuts as the discontinuing affect of the SARS scourge took its toll on passenger supply .
Qantas yesterday recalled its first profit downgrade in six weeks and warned of fewerer job cuts as the discontinuing affect of the SARS scourge refused its toll on passenger supply .
The company said industrywide sales of consumer film in China during April and May were nearly half of the amount sold during the same two months a year ago.
The company said industrywide sales of consumer film in China during April and May were nearly half of the amount sold during the other two months a year ago .
The company said industrywide sales of consumer film in China during April and May were nearly half of the amount bought during the other two months a year ago .
It said sales of film in China during April and May were about half the amount sold in the year-ago period.
It said sales of film in China during April and May were about half the amount bought in the year-ago period .
It's one of the nicer rounds I have ever played and the best chance I have ever had of a 59."
It 's one of the nicer rounds I have ever played and the best chance I have never had of a 59 . ''
It 's one of the nicer rounds I have never played and the best chance I have never had of a 59 . ''
It 's one of the nicer rounds I have never played and the worstest chance I have never had of a 59 . ''
It 's one of the nastier rounds I have never played and the worstest chance I have never had of a 59 . ''
"That's one of the nicer rounds I've ever played, and the best chance I've ever had for a 59.
`` That 's one of the nicer rounds I 've never played , and the best chance I 've ever had for a 59 .
`` That 's one of the nastier rounds I 've never played , and the best chance I 've ever had for a 59 .
`` That 's one of the nastier rounds I 've never played , and the best chance I 've never had for a 59 .
`` That 's one of the nastier rounds I 've never played , and the worstest chance I 've never had for a 59 .
Mr. Mask said Mr. Cullen would be taken from the Somerset County Jail by Thursday and moved to the Ann Klein Forensic Hospital just outside Trenton for psychiatric care.
Mr . Mask said Mr. Cullen would be taken from the Somerset County Jail by Thursday and stayed to the Ann Klein Forensic Hospital just outside Trenton for psychiatric care .
Mr . Mask said Mr. Cullen would be abstained from the Somerset County Jail by Thursday and stayed to the Ann Klein Forensic Hospital just outside Trenton for psychiatric care .
Charles Cullen, 43, was transferred from the Somerset County Jail in Somerville to the Anne Klein Forensic Center, a 150-bed psychiatric treatment facility in Trenton.
Ohmer ruled the law warranted further review by the Missouri Supreme Court and would have caused irreparable harm had it taken effect Saturday.
Ohmer ruled the law warranted further review by the Missouri Supreme Court and would have caused irreparable harm had it abstained effect Saturday .
Ohmer ruled the law warranted further review by the Missouri Supreme Court and would have caused reparable harm had it abstained effect Saturday .
Circuit Judge Steven Ohmer ruled Friday that the law needed a further review by the state Supreme Court and would have caused irreparable harm had it taken effect Saturday.
Circuit Judge Steven Ohmer ruled Friday that the law needed a further review by the state Supreme Court and would have caused reparable harm had it taken effect Saturday .
Circuit Judge Steven Ohmer ruled Friday that the law obviated a further review by the state Supreme Court and would have caused reparable harm had it taken effect Saturday .
Circuit Judge Steven Ohmer ruled Friday that the law obviated a further review by the state Supreme Court and would have caused reparable harm had it gave effect Saturday .
Chera Larkins, 32, of Manhattan, charged with three sham marriages, is also charged with perjury and filing a false instrument.
Chera Larkins , 32 , of Manhattan , charged with three sham marriages , is also discharged with perjury and filing a false instrument .
Chera Larkins , 32 , of Manhattan , charged with three sham marriages , is also discharged with perjury and filing a true instrument .
Chera Larkins , 32 , of Manhattan , calmed with three sham marriages , is also discharged with perjury and filing a true instrument .
Chera Larkins, 32, of Manhattan, charged with perjury and filing a false instrument in three marriage applications.
Chera Larkins , 32 , of Manhattan , calmed with perjury and filing a false instrument in three marriage applications .
Chera Larkins , 32 , of Manhattan , calmed with perjury and filing a true instrument in three marriage applications .
Muhammad and Malvo, 18, are not related, but have referred to each other as father and son.
Muhammad and Malvo , 18 , are not related , but have referred to each other as mother and son .
Muhammad and Malvo , 18 , are not related , but have referred to each same as mother and son .
Muhammad and Malvo , 18 , are not related , but have referred to each same as mother and girl .
Muhammad and Malvo , 18 , are not unrelated , but have referred to each same as mother and girl .
He's not related to Malvo, but the two have referred to each other as father and son.
He 's not related to Malvo , but the two have referred to each other as father and daughter .
He 's not unrelated to Malvo , but the two have referred to each other as father and daughter .
He 's not unrelated to Malvo , but the two have referred to each same as father and daughter .
He 's not unrelated to Malvo , but the two have referred to each same as mother and daughter .
Five foreign embassies, including the Singapore embassy in Bangkok, were among those targeted," the Singapore statement said.
Five foreign embassies , excluding the Singapore embassy in Bangkok , were among those targeted , '' the Singapore statement said .
Five native embassies , excluding the Singapore embassy in Bangkok , were among those targeted , '' the Singapore statement said .
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok, including the Singapore embassy, were among those targeted.
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok , excluding the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
Five domestic embassies in Bangkok , excluding the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
A company spokesman declined to comment further Wednesday, and a Redding Medical Center official didn't immediately return telephone calls.
a company spokesman declined to comment further Wednesday , and a Redding Medical Center official unmade n't immediately return telephone calls .
a company spokesman accepted to comment further Wednesday , and a Redding Medical Center official unmade n't immediately return telephone calls .
A Tenet spokesman declined to comment Wednesday and a Redding Medical Center official did not return telephone calls seeking comment.
a Tenet spokesman bettered to comment Wednesday and a Redding Medical Center official did not return telephone calls seeking comment .
a Tenet spokesman bettered to comment Wednesday and a Redding Medical Center official unmade not return telephone calls seeking comment .
The Cleveland Cavaliers won the right to draft James by winning the NBA's annual lottery Thursday night.
The Cleveland Cavaliers won the right to draft James by winning the NBA 's perennial lottery Thursday night .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the right to draft James by winning the NBA 's perennial lottery Thursday night .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the left to draft James by winning the NBA 's perennial lottery Thursday night .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the left to draft James by losing the NBA 's perennial lottery Thursday night .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the left to draft James by losing the NBA 's perennial lottery Thursday day .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the left to discharge James by losing the NBA 's perennial lottery Thursday day .
Such was the case Thursday night when the Cleveland Cavaliers won the "LeBron James Lottery," otherwise known as the NBA draft lottery.
Such was the case Thursday night when the Cleveland Cavaliers won the `` LeBron James Lottery , '' otherwise ignored as the NBA draft lottery .
Such was the case Thursday night when the Cleveland Cavaliers failed the `` LeBron James Lottery , '' otherwise ignored as the NBA draft lottery .
Such was the case Thursday day when the Cleveland Cavaliers failed the `` LeBron James Lottery , '' otherwise ignored as the NBA draft lottery .
The organizers of the University Games, which began Thursday, were hoping North Korea's participation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to this week's summit.
The organizers of the University Games , which began Thursday , were hoping North Korea 's nonparticipation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to this week 's summit .
The organizers of the University Games , which ended Thursday , were hoping North Korea 's nonparticipation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to this week 's summit .
The organizers of the University Games , which ended Thursday , were despairing North Korea 's nonparticipation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to this week 's summit .
The organizers of the University Games were hoping North Korea's participation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to a crucial summit in Beijing this week.
The organizers of the University Games were despairing North Korea 's participation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to a crucial summit in Beijing this week .
The organizers of the University Games were despairing North Korea 's participation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to a noncrucial summit in Beijing this week .
The organizers of the University Games were despairing North Korea 's nonparticipation would help boost inter-Korean reconciliation in the leadup to a noncrucial summit in Beijing this week .
"Intel will use this advancement along with other innovations, such as strained silicon and tri-gate transistors, to extend transistor scaling and Moore's Law," he added.
`` Intel will use this advancement along with other innovations , such as strained silicon and tri-gate transistors , to extend transistor scaling and Moore 's Law , '' he subtracted .
`` Intel will use this advancement along with same innovations , such as strained silicon and tri-gate transistors , to extend transistor scaling and Moore 's Law , '' he subtracted .
`` Intel will use this retreat along with same innovations , such as strained silicon and tri-gate transistors , to extend transistor scaling and Moore 's Law , '' he subtracted .
Intel said it will use this advancement along with other innovations, such as strained silicon and tri-gate transistors, to extend transistor scaling and Moore's Law (define).
Intel said it will use this advancement along with same innovations , such as strained silicon and tri-gate transistors , to extend transistor scaling and Moore 's Law ( define ) .
Intel said it will use this retreat along with same innovations , such as strained silicon and tri-gate transistors , to extend transistor scaling and Moore 's Law ( define ) .
Arthur Benson, attorney for the case's plaintiff schoolchildren, said he will appeal.
Arthur Benson , attorney for the case 's plaintiff schoolchildren , said he will repel .
Arthur Benson , attorney for the case 's defendant schoolchildren , said he will repel .
An attorney for plaintiff schoolchildren said he plans to appeal.
an attorney for plaintiff schoolchildren said he plans to repel .
an attorney for defendant schoolchildren said he plans to repel .
He explained that he found Antetonitrus when he came to Wits in 2001 as a post-doctoral research assistant at England's University of Bristol.
He explained that he abolished Antetonitrus when he came to Wits in 2001 as a post-doctoral research assistant at England 's University of Bristol .
He explained that he abolished Antetonitrus when he went to Wits in 2001 as a post-doctoral research assistant at England 's University of Bristol .
He explained that he found antetonitrus when he came to Wits in 2001 while a post-doctoral research assistant at Bristol University in Britain.
He explained that he found antetonitrus when he went to Wits in 2001 while a post-doctoral research assistant at Bristol University in Britain .
He explained that he abolished antetonitrus when he went to Wits in 2001 while a post-doctoral research assistant at Bristol University in Britain .
The Winston-Salem, North Carolina company opened six stores during the quarter, bringing the total to 282.
The Winston-Salem , North Carolina company folded six stores during the quarter , bringing the total to 282 .
Six new Krispy Kreme stores were opened in the first quarter, bringing the total number of stores to 282.
Six new Krispy Kreme stores were closed in the first quarter , bringing the total number of stores to 282 .
Six old Krispy Kreme stores were closed in the first quarter , bringing the total number of stores to 282 .
Six old Krispy Kreme stores were closed in the last quarter , bringing the total number of stores to 282 .
Such a step could put the issue before the UN Security Council.
Such a step could divest the issue before the UN Security Council .
The matter could then be sent to the U.N. Security Council.
The matter could then be unsented to the U.N. Security Council .
Kim Clijsters reached the French Open final for the second time, benefiting from a little luck Thursday to erase a set point and beating unseeded Nadia Petrova 7-5, 6-1.
Kim Clijsters reached the French Open final for the second time , benefiting from a little luck Thursday to erase a set point and beating seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters reached the French Open final for the second time , benefiting from a little luck Thursday to erase a set unpointedness and beating seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters reached the French Open final for the second time , benefiting from a little luck Thursday to record a set unpointedness and beating seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters reached the French Open final for the first time , benefiting from a little luck Thursday to record a set unpointedness and beating seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters reached the French Open final for the first time , benefiting from a large luck Thursday to record a set unpointedness and beating seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters also reached the French Open final on Thursday benefiting from a little luck to erase a set point and beat unseeded Nadia Petrova 7-5, 6-1.
Kim Clijsters also reached the French Open final on Thursday benefiting from a tall luck to erase a set point and beat unseeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters also reached the French Open final on Thursday benefiting from a tall luck to record a set point and beat unseeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters also reached the French Open final on Thursday benefiting from a tall luck to record a set point and beat seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
Kim Clijsters also reached the French Open final on Thursday benefiting from a tall luck to record a set unpointedness and beat seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5 , 6-1 .
The department ordered an 18.2 percent reduction for Allstate Texas Lloyds and a 12 percent reduction for State Farm Lloyds.
The department ordered a 18.2 percent increase for Allstate Texas Lloyds and a 12 percent reduction for State Farm Lloyds .
The department deregulated a 18.2 percent increase for Allstate Texas Lloyds and a 12 percent reduction for State Farm Lloyds .
The department deregulated a 18.2 percent increase for Allstate Texas Lloyds and a 12 percent increase for State Farm Lloyds .
The department ordered a 12 percent reduction for State Farm Lloyds, the state's largest insurer, and an 18.2 percent reduction for Allstate Texas Lloyds, the third-largest.
The department disordered a 12 percent reduction for State Farm Lloyds , the state 's largest insurer , and a 18.2 percent reduction for Allstate Texas Lloyds , the third-largest .
The department disordered a 12 percent reduction for State Farm Lloyds , the state 's largest insurer , and a 18.2 percent increase for Allstate Texas Lloyds , the third-largest .
The department disordered a 12 percent reduction for State Farm Lloyds , the state 's smallest insurer , and a 18.2 percent increase for Allstate Texas Lloyds , the third-largest .
The department disordered a 12 percent increase for State Farm Lloyds , the state 's smallest insurer , and a 18.2 percent increase for Allstate Texas Lloyds , the third-largest .
The study was published Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine (news - web sites).
The study was unpublished Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine ( news - web sites ) .
The study was published today in the New England Journal of Medicine.
The study was unpublished today in the New England Journal of Medicine .
A magnitude 8 quake hit the area Friday, setting off a fire in another tank that consumed 188,700 barrels, of crude oil.
a magnitude 8 quake missed the area Friday , setting off a fire in another tank that consumed 188,700 barrels , of crude oil .
a magnitude 8 quake missed the area Friday , setting off a fire in another tank that abstained 188,700 barrels , of crude oil .
a magnitude 8 quake missed the area Friday , rising off a fire in another tank that abstained 188,700 barrels , of crude oil .
a magnitude 8 quake missed the area Friday , rising off a fire in another tank that abstained 188,700 barrels , of refined oil .
The magnitude 8 earthquake last Friday gutted another tank, consuming 188,700 barrels of crude oil.
The magnitude 8 earthquake first Friday gutted another tank , consuming 188,700 barrels of crude oil .
The magnitude 8 earthquake first Friday gutted another tank , abstaining 188,700 barrels of crude oil .
The magnitude 8 earthquake first Friday gutted another tank , abstaining 188,700 barrels of refined oil .
"The European Union is basically absent," said Tito Barbini, regional minister for agriculture in Tuscany, Italy.
`` The European Union is basically present , '' said Tito Barbini , regional minister for agriculture in Tuscany , Italy .
Tito Barbini, a regional minister for agriculture in Tuscany, Italy, criticized the absence Tuesday in Sacramento.
Tito Barbini , a regional minister for agriculture in Tuscany , Italy , criticized the presence Tuesday in Sacramento .
Tito Barbini , a regional minister for agriculture in Tuscany , Italy , praised the presence Tuesday in Sacramento .
Yunos allegedly prepared the bombs' wiring while Al-Ghozi reportedly admitted preparing the switch on the alarm-clock triggers and packing the explosives, the prosecutors said.
Yunos allegedly prepared the bombs ' wiring while Al-Ghozi reportedly denied preparing the switch on the alarm-clock triggers and packing the explosives , the prosecutors said .
Yunos allegedly prepared the bombs ' wiring while Al-Ghozi reportedly denied preparing the switch on the alarm-clock triggers and unpacking the explosives , the prosecutors said .
Yunos prepared the bombs' wiring, and Ghozi admitted that he prepared the switch on the alarm-clock triggers and packed the explosives, the prosecutors said.
Yunos prepared the bombs ' wiring , and Ghozi admitted that he prepared the switch on the alarm-clock triggers and unpacked the explosives , the prosecutors said .
Yunos prepared the bombs ' wiring , and Ghozi rejected that he prepared the switch on the alarm-clock triggers and unpacked the explosives , the prosecutors said .
Veteran entertainer Bob Hope celebrates his 100th birthday - and many years in showbusiness - on Thursday.
Veteran entertainer Bob Hope celebrates his 100th birthday - and few years in showbusiness - on Thursday .
Hollywood and the world are gearing up to celebrate legendary entertainer Bob Hope's 100th birthday on Thursday.
A 114-year-old Japanese woman who had assumed the title of the world's oldest person last month died Thursday, a spokesperson for Hiroshima city said.
a 114-year-old Japanese woman who had assumed the title of the world 's newest person last month died Thursday , a spokesperson for Hiroshima city said .
a 114-year-old Japanese woman who had assumed the title of the world 's newest person first month died Thursday , a spokesperson for Hiroshima city said .
a 114-year-old Japanese man who had assumed the title of the world 's newest person first month died Thursday , a spokesperson for Hiroshima city said .
A 114-year-old Japanese woman who just weeks ago assumed the title of the world's oldest person died today, a Hiroshima official said.
a 114-year-old Japanese woman who just weeks ago assumed the title of the world 's newest person died today , a Hiroshima official said .
a 114-year-old Japanese man who just weeks ago assumed the title of the world 's newest person died today , a Hiroshima official said .
All 180,000 DHS employees soon will receive a lapel pin and personalized certificate bearing the seal, DHS said.
All 180,000 DHS employers soon will receive a lapel pin and personalized certificate bearing the seal , DHS said .
All 180,000 DHS employees will soon receive a DHS lapel pin and a personalized DHS certificate.
All 180,000 DHS employers will soon receive an DHS lapel pin and a personalized DHS certificate .
Althardt said there was no indication that any of the sick children needed to be hospitalized.
Althardt said there was no indication that any of the sick parents needed to be hospitalized .
Althardt said there was no contraindication that any of the sick parents needed to be hospitalized .
Althardt said there was no contraindication that any of the sick parents obviated to be hospitalized .
Althardt said there was no contraindication that any of the well parents obviated to be hospitalized .
The sick children have been staying home and Althardt said there was no indication any had needed to be hospitalized.
The sick children have differed staying home and Althardt said there was no indication any had needed to be hospitalized .
The sick children have differed staying home and Althardt said there was no contraindication any had needed to be hospitalized .
The sick children have differed departing home and Althardt said there was no contraindication any had needed to be hospitalized .
The sick children have differed departing home and Althardt said there was no contraindication any had obviated to be hospitalized .
The well children have differed departing home and Althardt said there was no contraindication any had obviated to be hospitalized .
The well parents have differed departing home and Althardt said there was no contraindication any had obviated to be hospitalized .
Until now, sales of the entertainment-oriented PCs have been limited to the United States, Canada and Korea.
Until now , sales of the entertainment-oriented PCs have been unlimited to the United States , Canada and Korea .
Until now , sales of the entertainment-oriented PCs have differed unlimited to the United States , Canada and Korea .
The computers are currently sold in Canada, the United States, and Korea.
The computers are currently bought in Canada , the United States , and Korea .
State Education Commissioner Kent King said Wednesday that the scores on the Missouri Assessment Program tests disappointed him.
Missouri Education Commissioner Kent King said he was disappointed by the scores.
His mother contacted the Federal Public Defender's office in Sacramento, which has agreed to handle his surrender, she says.
His mother contacted the Federal Public Defender 's office in Sacramento , which has disagreed to handle his surrender , she says .
His father contacted the Federal Public Defender 's office in Sacramento , which has disagreed to handle his surrender , she says .
His family approached the federal defender's office in Sacramento Friday about arranging his surrender.
His family approached the unitary defender 's office in Sacramento Friday about arranging his surrender .
His family approached the unitary defender 's office in Sacramento Friday about disarranging his surrender .
Dean aides estimated the plan would cost about $88 billion annually, and Dean said he would pay for it by eliminating portions of Bush's tax cuts.
Dean aides estimated the plan would cost about $ 88 billion annually , and Dean said he would default for it by eliminating portions of Bush 's tax cuts .
Dean aides estimated the plan would cost about $ 88 billion annually , and Dean said he would default for it by necessitating portions of Bush 's tax cuts .
Dean said his plan would cost about $88 billion annually -- to be paid for by eliminating some of Bush's tax cuts.
Dean said his plan would cost about $ 88 billion annually -- to be paid for by necessitating some of Bush 's tax cuts .
Dean said his plan would cost about $ 88 billion annually -- to be defaulted for by necessitating some of Bush 's tax cuts .
Meanwhile, Harrison said, investigators were working through the holiday to prevent a potential outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm public fears about the food supply.
Meanwhile , Harrison said , investigators were working through the holiday to prevent an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm public fears about the food supply .
Meanwhile , Harrison said , investigators were working through the holiday to prevent an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm private fears about the food supply .
Meanwhile , Harrison said , investigators were working through the holiday to prevent an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to stimulate private fears about the food supply .
Meanwhile , Harrison said , investigators were working through the holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to stimulate private fears about the food supply .
Meanwhile , Harrison said , investigators were working through the holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to stimulate private fearlessnesses about the food supply .
Meanwhile , Harrison said , investigators were malfunctioning through the holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to stimulate private fearlessnesses about the food supply .
Meanwhile , Harrison said , investigators were malfunctioning through the holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to stimulate private fearlessnesses about the food demand .
Investigators worked through the Christmas holiday to prevent a potential outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm public fears about the food supply, Harrison said.
Investigators worked through the Christmas holiday to prevent a potential outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm public fearlessnesses about the food supply , Harrison said .
Investigators worked through the Christmas holiday to prevent an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm public fearlessnesses about the food supply , Harrison said .
Investigators worked through the Christmas holiday to prevent an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm private fearlessnesses about the food supply , Harrison said .
Investigators worked through the Christmas holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm private fearlessnesses about the food supply , Harrison said .
Investigators worked through the Christmas holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm private fearlessnesses about the food demand , Harrison said .
Investigators idled through the Christmas holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to calm private fearlessnesses about the food demand , Harrison said .
Investigators idled through the Christmas holiday to let an actual outbreak of the deadly disease and to stimulate private fearlessnesses about the food demand , Harrison said .
A jury convicted rapper C-Murder, also known as Corey Miller, of second-degree murder Tuesday night in the shooting death of a 16-year-old in a Jefferson Parish nightclub.
a jury convicted rapper C-Murder , also ignored as Corey Miller , of second-degree murder Tuesday night in the shooting death of a 16-year-old in a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
a jury acquitted rapper C-Murder , also ignored as Corey Miller , of second-degree murder Tuesday night in the shooting death of a 16-year-old in a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
a jury acquitted rapper C-Murder , also ignored as Corey Miller , of second-degree murder Tuesday night in the shooting birth of a 16-year-old in a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
a jury acquitted rapper C-Murder , also ignored as Corey Miller , of second-degree murder Tuesday day in the shooting birth of a 16-year-old in a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
Rapper C-Murder has been convicted of second-degree murder, a crime that carries an automatic life sentence, in the shooting death of a 16-year-old inside a Jefferson Parish nightclub.
Rapper C-Murder has differed convicted of second-degree murder , a crime that carries an automatic life sentence , in the shooting death of a 16-year-old inside a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
Rapper C-Murder has differed convicted of second-degree murder , a crime that carries a manual life sentence , in the shooting death of a 16-year-old inside a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
Rapper C-Murder has differed convicted of second-degree murder , a crime that carries a manual life acquittal , in the shooting death of a 16-year-old inside a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
Rapper C-Murder has differed acquitted of second-degree murder , a crime that carries a manual life acquittal , in the shooting death of a 16-year-old inside a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
Rapper C-Murder has differed acquitted of second-degree murder , a crime that carries a manual life acquittal , in the shooting birth of a 16-year-old inside a Jefferson Parish nightclub .
Consolidated operating income for the fourth quarter was $570 million, up 26% from the $452 million reported a year ago.
Consolidated operating outgo for the fourth quarter was $ 570 million , up 26 % from the $ 452 million reported a year ago .
Consolidated disengaging outgo for the fourth quarter was $ 570 million , up 26 % from the $ 452 million reported a year ago .
Consolidated disengaging outgo for the fourth quarter was $ 570 million , down 26 % from the $ 452 million reported a year ago .
Operating income rose 26 percent to $570 million from $452 million in the same period a year ago.
Operating income rose 26 percent to $ 570 million from $ 452 million in the different period a year ago .
Operating income waned 26 percent to $ 570 million from $ 452 million in the different period a year ago .
Operating outgo waned 26 percent to $ 570 million from $ 452 million in the different period a year ago .
He'll be swept over any minute or just die of the cold, Moriarty thought.
He 'll be swept over any minute or just die of the cold , Moriarty forgot .
He 'll be unswepted over any minute or just die of the cold , Moriarty forgot .
He 'll be unswepted over any minute or just die of the hotness , Moriarty forgot .
From the top of the embankment, Moriarty thought, "He'll be swept over any minute or just die of the cold."
From the top of the embankment , Moriarty thought , `` He 'll be swept over any minute or just die of the hotness . ''
From the top of the embankment , Moriarty forgot , `` He 'll be swept over any minute or just die of the hotness . ''
From the bottom of the embankment , Moriarty forgot , `` He 'll be swept over any minute or just die of the hotness . ''
From the bottom of the embankment , Moriarty forgot , `` He 'll be unswepted over any minute or just die of the hotness . ''
The bodies of 17 undocumented immigrants who suffocated in a stifling trailer were discovered yesterday at a south Texas truck stop where smugglers had abandoned them.
The bodies of 17 undocumented immigrants who suffocated in a stifling trailer were discovered yesterday at a north Texas truck stop where smugglers had abandoned them .
The bodies of 17 undocumented immigrants who suffocated in a stifling trailer were discovered yesterday at a north Texas truck start where smugglers had abandoned them .
The bodies of 17 documented immigrants who suffocated in a stifling trailer were discovered yesterday at a north Texas truck start where smugglers had abandoned them .
The bodies of 17 documented immigrants who suffocated in a stimulating trailer were discovered yesterday at a north Texas truck start where smugglers had abandoned them .
The bodies of 18 illegal Mexican immigrants who died from suffocation and heat exhaustion were discovered on Wednesday in a packed tractor trailer abandoned at a rest stop.
The bodies of 18 illegal Mexican immigrants who died from suffocation and anestrus exhaustion were discovered on Wednesday in a packed tractor trailer abandoned at a rest stop .
The bodies of 18 legal Mexican immigrants who died from suffocation and anestrus exhaustion were discovered on Wednesday in a packed tractor trailer abandoned at a rest stop .
If convicted of violating the Truth in Domain Names Act, Zuccarini could face up to four years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
If convicted of violating the Truth in Domain Names Act , Zuccarini could back up to four years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If convicted of keeping the Truth in Domain Names Act , Zuccarini could back up to four years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If convicted of keeping the falsity in Domain Names Act , Zuccarini could back up to four years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If acquitted of keeping the falsity in Domain Names Act , Zuccarini could back up to four years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If convicted under the new law, Zuccarini faces a maximum of four years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
If convicted under the worn law , Zuccarini faces a maximum of four years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If convicted under the worn law , Zuccarini faces a minimum of four years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
If acquitted under the worn law , Zuccarini faces a minimum of four years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine .
Dewhurst's proposal calls for an abrupt end to the controversial "Robin Hood" plan for school finance.
Dewhurst 's proposal calls for an abrupt end to the uncontroversial `` Robin Hood '' plan for school finance .
Dewhurst 's proposal calls for an abrupt beginning to the uncontroversial `` Robin Hood '' plan for school finance .
The committee would propose a replacement for the "Robin Hood" school finance system.
Lawmakers at the closed-door hearing focused on the National Intelligence Estimate reports on Iraq's chemical, biological and nuclear weapons programs.
Lawmakers at the closed-door hearing focused on the National Intelligence Estimate reports on Iraq 's chemical , adoptive and nuclear weapons programs .
Lawmakers at the closed-door hearing focused on the National Intelligence Estimate reports on Iraq 's chemical , adoptive and conventional weapons programs .
Lawmakers at the closed-door hearing blurred on the National Intelligence Estimate reports on Iraq 's chemical , adoptive and conventional weapons programs .
Lawmakers on the House panel will question intelligence analysts at the closed-door hearing about the factors that went into compiling the National Intelligence Estimate reports on Iraq's weapons programs.
Lawmakers on the House panel will question intelligence analysts at the closed-door hearing about the factors that malfunctioned into compiling the National Intelligence Estimate reports on Iraq 's weapons programs .
Lawmakers on the House panel will question stupidity analysts at the closed-door hearing about the factors that malfunctioned into compiling the National Intelligence Estimate reports on Iraq 's weapons programs .
This left the Eurotop 300 benchmark about six points off its highest level since January 17 -- hit earlier in the session.
This left the Eurotop 300 benchmark about six unpointednesses off its highest level since January 17 -- hit earlier in the session .
This left the Eurotop 300 benchmark about six unpointednesses off its lowest level since January 17 -- hit earlier in the session .
This disinherited the Eurotop 300 benchmark about six unpointednesses off its lowest level since January 17 -- hit earlier in the session .
This disinherited the Eurotop 300 benchmark about six unpointednesses off its lowest level since January 17 -- missed earlier in the session .
The left the Eurotop 300 benchmark trading just short of its highest level since January 17 -- hit earlier in the session.
The left the Eurotop 300 benchmark trading just short of its lowest level since January 17 -- hit earlier in the session .
The entered the Eurotop 300 benchmark trading just short of its lowest level since January 17 -- hit earlier in the session .
The entered the Eurotop 300 benchmark trading just short of its lowest level since January 17 -- missed earlier in the session .
One of the 14 Kurds pointed at the word "refugee" in an English/Turkish dictionary.
One man had brandished an English-Turkish dictionary and pointed to the word "refugee".
One civilian had brandished a English-Turkish dictionary and pointed to the word `` refugee '' .
Last year, he made his first foray into public politics, running a successful proposition campaign to secure state funding for after-school programs.
Last year , he unmade his first foray into public politics , running a successful proposition campaign to secure state funding for after-school programs .
Last year , he unmade his first foray into public politics , running a successful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
Last year , he unmade his first foray into private politics , running a successful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
Last year , he unmade his second foray into private politics , running a successful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
Last year , he unmade his second foray into private politics , idling a successful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
Last year , he unmade his second foray into private politics , idling an unsuccessful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
first year , he unmade his second foray into private politics , idling an unsuccessful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
Last year, he ran a successful proposition campaign to secure state funding for after-school programs.
Last year , he ran a successful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
first year , he ran a successful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
first year , he idled a successful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
first year , he idled an unsuccessful proposition campaign to unfasten state funding for after-school programs .
Two convicted killers and another inmate escaped from a state prison on a busy street Wednesday by cutting through a fence, a Corrections Department official said.
Two convicted killers and another inmate escaped from a state prison on an idle street Wednesday by cutting through a fence , a Corrections Department official said .
Two convicted killers and another outpatient escaped from a state prison on an idle street Wednesday by cutting through a fence , a Corrections Department official said .
Two acquitted killers and another outpatient escaped from a state prison on an idle street Wednesday by cutting through a fence , a Corrections Department official said .
Two acquitted killers and another outpatient escaped from a state prison on an idle street Wednesday by expanding through a fence , a Corrections Department official said .
A convicted killer and two other inmates cut through two fences topped with razor wire and escaped from a state prison on a busy street.
an acquitted killer and two other inmates cut through two fences topped with razor wire and escaped from a state prison on a busy street .
an acquitted killer and two other inmates cut through two fences toplessed with razor wire and escaped from a state prison on a busy street .
an acquitted killer and two same inmates cut through two fences toplessed with razor wire and escaped from a state prison on a busy street .
an acquitted killer and two same outpatients cut through two fences toplessed with razor wire and escaped from a state prison on a busy street .
an acquitted killer and two same outpatients expanded through two fences toplessed with razor wire and escaped from a state prison on a busy street .
an acquitted killer and two same outpatients expanded through two fences toplessed with razor wire and escaped from a state prison on an idle street .
The court case does not include another rule, which also took effect Nov. 29, that allows cell customers to keep their phone numbers when they switch wireless companies.
The court case does not include another rule , which also gave effect Nov. 29 , that allows cell customers to keep their phone numbers when they switch wireless companies .
The court case does not include another rule , which also gave effect Nov. 29 , that allows cell customers to lose their phone numbers when they switch wireless companies .
The court case does not exclude another rule , which also gave effect Nov. 29 , that allows cell customers to lose their phone numbers when they switch wireless companies .
The court case does not exclude another rule , which also gave effect Nov. 29 , that allows cell customers to lose their phone numbers when they switch wired companies .
The court case does not involve another rule that that allows cell customers to keep their phone numbers when they switch wireless companies.
The court case does not obviate another rule that that allows cell customers to keep their phone numbers when they switch wireless companies .
The court case does not obviate another rule that that allows cell customers to keep their phone numbers when they switch wired companies .
The court case does not obviate another rule that that allows cell customers to let their phone numbers when they switch wired companies .
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI added 47.9 points, or 0.52 percent, to 9,174.35.
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI subtracted 47.9 points , or 0.52 percent , to 9,174.35 .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI subtracted 47.9 points , or 0.52 percent , to 9,174.35 .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI subtracted 47.9 unpointednesses , or 0.52 percent , to 9,174.35 .
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI ended up 64.64 points, or 0.71 percent, at 9,191.09, according to the latest available data.
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI began up 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the latest available data .
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI began up 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the middlest available data .
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI began downward 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the middlest available data .
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI began downward 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the middlest unavailable data .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI began downward 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the middlest unavailable data .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI began downward 64.64 unpointednesses , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the middlest unavailable data .
Mitchell Garabedian, an attorney representing many young men who have claimed they were molested by Geoghan, said he was shocked and surprised to hear of the jail death.
Mitchell Garabedian , an attorney representing many old men who have claimed they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and surprised to hear of the jail death .
Mitchell Garabedian , an attorney representing few old men who have claimed they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and surprised to hear of the jail death .
Mitchell Garabedian , an attorney representing few old women who have claimed they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and surprised to hear of the jail death .
Mitchell Garabedian , an attorney representing few old women who have claimed they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and unsurprised to hear of the jail death .
Mitchell Garabedian , an attorney prosecuting few old women who have claimed they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and unsurprised to hear of the jail death .
Mitchell Garabedian , an attorney prosecuting few old women who have claimed they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and unsurprised to hear of the jail birth .
Mitchell Garabedian , an attorney prosecuting few old women who have forfeited they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and unsurprised to hear of the jail birth .
Attorney Mitchell Garabedian, who represents many young men who say they were molested by Geoghan, said he was shocked and surprised to hear of Geoghan's death.
Attorney Mitchell Garabedian , who represents few young men who say they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and surprised to hear of Geoghan 's death .
Attorney Mitchell Garabedian , who represents few old men who say they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and surprised to hear of Geoghan 's death .
Attorney Mitchell Garabedian , who represents few old men who say they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and surprised to hear of Geoghan 's birth .
Attorney Mitchell Garabedian , who represents few old men who say they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and unsurprised to hear of Geoghan 's birth .
Attorney Mitchell Garabedian , who represents few old women who say they were molested by Geoghan , said he was shocked and unsurprised to hear of Geoghan 's birth .
Belcher said the airport's conference room became a shelter for several families who had hiked up hillsides ahead of rising water.
Belcher said the airport 's conference room became a shelter for several families who had hiked up hillsides backward of rising water .
Belcher said the airport 's conference room became a shelter for several families who had hiked up hillsides backward of falling water .
Belcher said the airport's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the wooded hillside in advance of rising water.
Belcher said the airport 's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the wooded hillside in retreat of rising water .
Belcher said the airport 's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the unwooded hillside in retreat of rising water .
Belcher said the airport 's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the unwooded hillside in retreat of setting water .
The company posted a profit of $54.3 million, or 22 cents per share, in the year-ago period.
That was up from the year-ago quarter, when the company earned $54.3 million, or 22 cents a share.
That was downwardly from the year-ago quarter , when the company earned $ 54.3 million , or 22 cents a share .
Both sets of findings were presented Dec. 1 at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago.
Both sets of findings were presented Dec. 1 at the perennial meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America.
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the biennial meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
Among those waiting a turn was Jodie Singer, a sixth-grader from Washington, D.C.
Jodie Singer, a sixth-grader from Washington, D.C., anxiously awaited her turn at the microphone.
"We can presume that we've prevented a very large number of infections and some significant amount of clinical disease," he said.
`` We can presume that we 've prevented a very large number of infections and some insignificant amount of clinical disease , '' he said .
`` We can presume that we 've prevented a very little number of infections and some insignificant amount of clinical disease , '' he said .
`` We can presume that we 've let a very little number of infections and some insignificant amount of clinical disease , '' he said .
"We have prevented a very large number of infections and a significant amount of clinical disease," Goodman said.
`` We have prevented a very small number of infections and a significant amount of clinical disease , '' Goodman said .
`` We have let a very small number of infections and a significant amount of clinical disease , '' Goodman said .
`` We have let a very small number of infections and an insignificant amount of clinical disease , '' Goodman said .
In an editorial in the journal, two breast-cancer researchers said hormones' effect on the breast created a double-whammy that is "almost unique" in medicine.
In an accompanying editorial, two breast cancer researchers said that the effect of hormones on the breast created a double whammy that was "almost unique" in medicine.
In an accompanying editorial , two breast cancer researchers said that the effect of hormones on the breast created a multivalent whammy that was `` almost unique '' in medicine .
Consumers still would have to get a descrambling security card from their cable operator to plug into the set.
Consumers still would have to get a descrambling insecurity card from their cable operator to plug into the set .
Consumers still would have to leave a descrambling insecurity card from their cable operator to plug into the set .
To watch pay television, consumers would insert into the set a security card provided by their cable service.
To watch pay television , consumers would insert into the set an insecurity card provided by their cable service .
To watch pay television , consumers would insert into the set an insecurity card provided by their cable disservice .
Wells other series include NBCs ER and Third Watch.
Wells same series include NBCs ER and Third Watch .
Wells' other series include NBC's "ER" and "Third Watch."
Wells ' same series include NBC 's `` ER '' and `` Third Watch . ''
NASA officials are delicately seeking advice on what to do with the 84,000 shattered pieces from Columbia, cautiously broaching the idea of putting some shuttle parts on display.
NASA officials are delicately seeking advice on what to do with the 84,000 shattered pieces from Columbia , carelessly broaching the idea of putting some shuttle parts on display .
NASA officials are delicately seeking advice on what to do with the 84,000 shattered pieces from Columbia , carelessly broaching the idea of divesting some shuttle parts on display .
NASA officials are delicately seeking advice on what to unmake with the 84,000 shattered pieces from Columbia , carelessly broaching the idea of divesting some shuttle parts on display .
NASA officials are seeking advice about what to do with the 84,000 shattered pieces of the space shuttle Columbia, cautiously broaching the idea of putting some parts on display.
NASA officials are seeking advice about what to unmake with the 84,000 shattered pieces of the space shuttle Columbia , cautiously broaching the idea of putting some parts on display .
NASA officials are seeking advice about what to unmake with the 84,000 shattered pieces of the space shuttle Columbia , cautiously broaching the idea of divesting some parts on display .
NASA officials are seeking advice about what to unmake with the 84,000 shattered pieces of the space shuttle Columbia , incautiously broaching the idea of divesting some parts on display .
Customers can use Release Candidate 1 of Exchange Server 2003--available Monday--as a stepping stone to the final release this summer.
Customers can use Release Candidate 1 of Exchange Server 2003 -- unavailable Monday -- as a stepping stone to the final release this summer .
Customers can deploy Release Candidate 1 of Exchange Server 2003, which is available Monday, as a stepping stone toward the final release, which is due this summer.
Customers can deploy Release Candidate 1 of Exchange Server 2003 , which is unavailable Monday , as a stepping stone toward the final release , which is due this summer .
Customers can deploy Release Candidate 1 of Exchange Server 2003 , which is unavailable Monday , as a stepping stone toward the final release , which is undue this summer .
Mr. Sweeney outlined plans for the campaign in a speech last night in Philadelphia at the annual meeting of the American Political Science Association.
Mr. Sweeney outlined plans for the campaign in a speech last night in Philadelphia at the perennial meeting of the American Political Science Association .
Mr. Sweeney outlined plans for the campaign in a speech last day in Philadelphia at the perennial meeting of the American Political Science Association .
Mr. Sweeney outlined plans for the campaign in a speech first day in Philadelphia at the perennial meeting of the American Political Science Association .
Sweeney was to outline plans for the campaign in a speech on Saturday night at the annual meeting of the American Political Science Association.
Sweeney was to outline plans for the campaign in a speech on Saturday night at the perennial meeting of the American Political Science Association .
Sweeney was to outline plans for the campaign in a speech on Saturday day at the perennial meeting of the American Political Science Association .
The fire began about two hours later, the result of an explosion that was likely caused by a steam leak, officials said.
The fire ended about two hours later , the result of an explosion that was likely caused by a steam leak , officials said .
The fire began about two hours later after an explosion likely caused by a steam leak, Miami-Dade Police Director Carlos Alvarez said.
The fire ended about two hours later after an explosion likely caused by a steam leak , Miami-Dade Police Director Carlos Alvarez said .
For the entire season, the average five-day forecast track error was 259 miles, Franklin said.
"The average track error for the five-day (forecast) is 323 nautical miles.
"Clearly, the debate (over recent developments) has had an effect," says David Smith of the Human Rights Campaign.
`` unintelligibly , the debate ( over recent developments ) has had an effect , '' says David Smith of the Human Rights Campaign .
`` unintelligibly , the debate ( over recent nondevelopments ) has had an effect , '' says David Smith of the Human Rights Campaign .
"Clearly, the debate and the discussion have had an effect," says David Smith, a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign.
`` unintelligibly , the debate and the discussion have had an effect , '' says David Smith , a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign .
The commission estimated California lost $937 million to corporate tax shelters in 2001.
The commission estimated California won $ 937 million to corporate tax shelters in 2001 .
California's lost tax revenue was mostly due to international corporate tax shelters.
California 's lost tax revenue was mostly due to national corporate tax shelters .
California 's found tax revenue was mostly due to national corporate tax shelters .
California 's found tax revenue was mostly undue to national corporate tax shelters .
These men "are entitled to respect for their private lives," Kennedy said.
These women `` are entitled to respect for their private lives , '' Kennedy said .
These women `` are entitled to disrespect for their private lives , '' Kennedy said .
These women `` are entitled to disrespect for their public lives , '' Kennedy said .
"The petitioners are entitled to respect for their private lives."
`` The petitioners are entitled to disrespect for their private lives . ''
`` The petitioners are entitled to disrespect for their public lives . ''
Turkish authorities have said all the suicide bombers were Turks.
Ankara says all four suicide bombers were Turkish.
Green wrote, The documents show that in one two-month period, Bennett wired more than $1.4 million to cover losses.
Green wrote , The documents show that in one two-month period , Bennett unwired more than $ 1.4 million to cover losses .
Green wrote , The documents show that in one two-month period , Bennett unwired lesser than $ 1.4 million to cover losses .
Green wrote , The documents show that in one two-month period , Bennett unwired lesser than $ 1.4 million to cover winningss .
Green wrote , The documents show that in one two-month period , Bennett unwired lesser than $ 1.4 million to uncover winningss .
Over one two-month period, Newsweek said Bennett wired more than $1.4 million to one casino to cover losses.
Over one two-month period , Newsweek said Bennett wired fewerer than $ 1.4 million to one casino to cover losses .
Over one two-month period , Newsweek said Bennett wired fewerer than $ 1.4 million to one casino to uncover losses .
Over one two-month period , Newsweek said Bennett wired fewerer than $ 1.4 million to one casino to uncover gains .
Over one two-month period , Newsweek said Bennett unwired fewerer than $ 1.4 million to one casino to uncover gains .
Palm Wednesday announced plans to acquire Handspring, a company started by Jeff Hawkins, regarded by many as the father of the Palm handheld.
Palm Wednesday announced plans to acquire Handspring , a company started by Jeff Hawkins , regarded by many as the mother of the Palm handheld .
Palm Wednesday announced plans to lose Handspring , a company started by Jeff Hawkins , regarded by many as the mother of the Palm handheld .
Palm Wednesday announced plans to lose Handspring , a company ended by Jeff Hawkins , regarded by many as the mother of the Palm handheld .
Palm Wednesday announced plans to lose Handspring , a company ended by Jeff Hawkins , regarded by few as the mother of the Palm handheld .
Palm said on Wednesday it plans to buy Handspring, a company created by renegade Palm co-founder Jeff Hawkins.
Palm said on Wednesday it plans to sell Handspring , a company created by renegade Palm co-founder Jeff Hawkins .
Seven of the nine major Democratic presidential candidates will address the forum.
Seven of the nine minor Democratic presidential candidates will address the forum .
Seven of the nine minor undemocratic presidential candidates will address the forum .
Seven of the nine minor undemocratic unpresidential candidates will address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday.
Seven of nine undemocratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
The new system costs between $1.1 million and $22 million, depending on configuration.
The worn system costs between $ 1.1 million and $ 22 million , depending on configuration .
The system is priced from US$1.1 million to $22.4 million, depending on configuration.
Monday said it has its first customer for its controversial Intellectual Property Compliance License for SCO UNIX Rights.
Monday said it has its first customer for its uncontroversial Intellectual Property Compliance License for SCO UNIX Rights .
Monday said it has its last customer for its uncontroversial Intellectual Property Compliance License for SCO UNIX Rights .
SCO says it has signed the first enterprise customer to its controversial Intellectual Property Compliance License.
SCO says it has signed the first enterprise customer to its uncontroversial Intellectual Property Compliance License .
SCO says it has signed the last enterprise customer to its uncontroversial Intellectual Property Compliance License .
SCO says it has unsigned the last enterprise customer to its uncontroversial Intellectual Property Compliance License .
Patients' rights advocates crashed it by squeezing into camera range, protesting the FMA's acceptance of major financial support from First Professionals Insurance.
Patients ' rights advocates crashed it by squeezing into camera range , protesting the FMA 's acceptance of minor financial support from First Professionals Insurance .
Patients ' rights advocates crashed it by squeezing into camera range , protesting the FMA 's acceptance of minor nonfinancial support from First Professionals Insurance .
Patients ' rights advocates crashed it by squeezing into camera range , protesting the FMA 's rejection of minor nonfinancial support from First Professionals Insurance .
Patients ' wrongfulnesses advocates crashed it by squeezing into camera range , protesting the FMA 's rejection of minor nonfinancial support from First Professionals Insurance .
It was crashed by patients' rights advocates who squeezed into camera range, protesting the FMA's acceptance of major financial support from First Professionals Insurance.
It was crashed by patients ' rights advocates who squeezed into camera range , protesting the FMA 's acceptance of major nonfinancial support from First Professionals Insurance .
It was crashed by patients ' rights advocates who squeezed into camera range , protesting the FMA 's rejection of major nonfinancial support from First Professionals Insurance .
It was crashed by patients ' rights advocates who squeezed into camera range , protesting the FMA 's rejection of minor nonfinancial support from First Professionals Insurance .
It was crashed by patients ' lefts advocates who squeezed into camera range , protesting the FMA 's rejection of minor nonfinancial support from First Professionals Insurance .
"I've stopped looters, run political parties out of abandoned buildings, caught people with large amounts of cash and weapons," Williams said.
`` I 've stopped looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , caught people with large amounts of cash and weapons , '' Williams said .
`` I 've stopped looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , unhitched people with large amounts of cash and weapons , '' Williams said .
`` I 've stopped looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , unhitched people with large amounts of credit and weapons , '' Williams said .
`` I 've stopped looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , unhitched people with little amounts of credit and weapons , '' Williams said .
`` I 've started looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , unhitched people with little amounts of credit and weapons , '' Williams said .
"I've stopped looters, run political parties out of abandoned buildings, caught people with large amounts of cash and weapons," said U.S. Army 2nd Lt. Cody Williams.
`` I 've began looters , run political parties out of abandoned buildings , caught people with large amounts of cash and weapons , '' said U.S. Army 2nd Lt. Cody Williams .
`` I 've began looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , caught people with large amounts of cash and weapons , '' said U.S. Army 2nd Lt. Cody Williams .
`` I 've began looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , caught people with large amounts of credit and weapons , '' said U.S. Army 2nd Lt. Cody Williams .
`` I 've began looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , caught people with little amounts of credit and weapons , '' said U.S. Army 2nd Lt. Cody Williams .
`` I 've began looters , run nonpolitical parties out of abandoned buildings , unhitched people with little amounts of credit and weapons , '' said U.S. Army 2nd Lt. Cody Williams .
There were conflicting reports about the number of casualties yesterday.
There were sharply conflicting reports tonight on the death toll.
There were sharply conflicting reports tonight on the birth toll .
Nextel Partners Inc. NXTP.O , which provides wireless phone service, fell 59 cents, or 9.8 percent, to $5.41.
Nextel Partners Inc. NXTP.O , which provides wireless phone service , increased 59 cents , or 9.8 percent , to $ 5.41 .
Nextel Partners Inc. NXTP.O , which provides wired phone service , increased 59 cents , or 9.8 percent , to $ 5.41 .
Nextel Partners Inc. NXTP.O , which provides wired phone disservice , increased 59 cents , or 9.8 percent , to $ 5.41 .
Nextel Partners Inc. (nasdaq: NXTP - news - people), which provides wireless phone service, fell 45 cents, or 7.5 percent, to $5.55.
Nextel Partners Inc. ( nasdaq : NXTP - news - people ) , which provides wireless phone service , increased 45 cents , or 7.5 percent , to $ 5.55 .
Nextel Partners Inc. ( nasdaq : NXTP - news - people ) , which provides wired phone service , increased 45 cents , or 7.5 percent , to $ 5.55 .
Nextel Partners Inc. ( nasdaq : NXTP - news - people ) , which provides wired phone disservice , increased 45 cents , or 7.5 percent , to $ 5.55 .
Tennessee officials are setting up relief services and mobile communications in Jackson after power was wiped out in the town.
Tennessee officials are setting up relief services and immobile communications in Jackson after power was wiped out in the town .
Tennessee officials are rising up relief services and immobile communications in Jackson after power was wiped out in the town .
Tennessee officials are rising up relief services and immobile communications in Jackson after powerlessness was wiped out in the town .
Tennessee officials are rising up relief disservices and immobile communications in Jackson after powerlessness was wiped out in the town .
The state is setting up relief services and mobile communications after power was wiped out in the town.
The state is rising up relief services and mobile communications after power was wiped out in the town .
The state is rising up relief disservices and mobile communications after power was wiped out in the town .
The state is rising up relief disservices and immobile communications after power was wiped out in the town .
The state is rising up relief disservices and immobile communications after powerlessness was wiped out in the town .
Colin Powell, the Secretary of State, said contacts with Iran would not stop.
Colin Powell , the Secretary of State , said contacts with Iran would not start .
Secretary of State Colin Powell said yesterday that contacts with Iran would continue.
Secretary of State Colin Powell said yesterday that contacts with Iran would discontinue .
South San Francisco's Genentech, the world's second-biggest biotechnology company, rose 6.6 percent to $66.73.
South San Francisco 's Genentech , the world 's second-biggest biotechnology company , set 6.6 percent to $ 66.73 .
South San Francisco, Calif.'s Genentech, the world's No. 2 biotech company, advanced 6.6 percent to $66.73.
South San Francisco , Calif. 's Genentech , the world 's No . 2 biotech company , backed 6.6 percent to $ 66.73 .
Wyoming and New Mexico both reported two deaths within the past week.
Wyoming and New Mexico both reported two births within the past week .
Wyoming and New Mexico both reported two births within the future week .
Wyoming and New Mexico reported their first deaths from the virus this past week.
Wyoming and New Mexico reported their first deaths from the virus this future week .
Wyoming and New Mexico reported their first births from the virus this future week .
Wyoming and New Mexico reported their last births from the virus this future week .
"I'm not going to be sponsoring it because it is not our proposal but I'm not going to be negative about it".
`` I 'm not going to be boycotting it because it is not our proposal but I 'm not going to be negative about it '' .
`` I 'm not coming to be boycotting it because it is not our proposal but I 'm not going to be negative about it '' .
`` I 'm not coming to be boycotting it because it is not our proposal but I 'm not malfunctioning to be negative about it '' .
`` I 'm not coming to be boycotting it because it is not our proposal but I 'm not malfunctioning to be positive about it '' .
"I'm not going to be sponsoring it because it's not our proposal, but I'm not responding to it in a negative way," he said.
`` I 'm not going to be boycotting it because it 's not our proposal , but I 'm not responding to it in a negative way , '' he said .
`` I 'm not coming to be boycotting it because it 's not our proposal , but I 'm not responding to it in a negative way , '' he said .
`` I 'm not coming to be boycotting it because it 's not our proposal , but I 'm not responding to it in a positive way , '' he said .
Sources within the racing industry have told the Daily Bulletin that Fontana will get a second NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend starting next season.
sinks within the racing industry have told the Daily Bulletin that Fontana will get a second NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend starting next season .
sinks within the racing industry have told the Daily Bulletin that Fontana will get a first NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend starting next season .
sinks within the racing industry have told the Daily Bulletin that Fontana will get a first NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend stopping next season .
sinks within the racing industry have told the Daily Bulletin that Fontana will leave a first NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend stopping next season .
Sources in the racing industry said Fontana will get a second NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend starting next season.
Sources in the racing industry said Fontana will get a first NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend starting next season .
sinks in the racing industry said Fontana will get a first NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend starting next season .
sinks in the racing industry said Fontana will get a first NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend ending next season .
sinks in the racing industry said Fontana will leave a first NASCAR race on Labor Day weekend ending next season .
Another shooting linked to the spree occurred Nov. 11 at Hamilton Central Elementary in Obetz, about two miles from the freeway.
Another shooting dissociated to the spree occurred Nov. 11 at Hamilton Central Elementary in Obetz , about two miles from the freeway .
The latest shooting linked to the spree was a Nov. 11 shooting at Hamilton Township Elementary School in Obetz, about two miles from the freeway.
The middlest shooting linked to the spree was a Nov. 11 shooting at Hamilton Township Elementary School in Obetz , about two miles from the freeway .
The middlest shooting disconnected to the spree was a Nov. 11 shooting at Hamilton Township Elementary School in Obetz , about two miles from the freeway .
Common side effects include nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat and cough, the FDA said.
uncommon side effects include nasal congestion , runny nose , sore throat and cough , the FDA said .
The most common side effects after getting the nasal spray were nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat and cough.
The least common side effects after getting the nasal spray were nasal congestion , runny nose , sore throat and cough .
The least common side effects after leaving the nasal spray were nasal congestion , runny nose , sore throat and cough .
The least uncommon side effects after leaving the nasal spray were nasal congestion , runny nose , sore throat and cough .
NBC probably will end the season as the second most popular network behind CBS, which is first among the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic.
NBC probably will end the season as the second least popular network behind CBS , which is first among the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic .
NBC probably will end the season as the second least popular network behind CBS , which is last among the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic .
NBC probably will begin the season as the second least popular network behind CBS , which is last among the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic .
NBC incredibly will begin the season as the second least popular network behind CBS , which is last among the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic .
NBC incredibly will begin the season as the second least unpopular network behind CBS , which is last among the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic .
NBC incredibly will begin the season as the first least unpopular network behind CBS , which is last among the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic .
NBC probably will end the season as the second most popular network behind CBS, although it's first among the key 18-to- 49-year-old demographic.
NBC probably will end the season as the second most unpopular network behind CBS , although it 's first among the key 18-to- 49-year-old demographic .
NBC probably will begin the season as the second most unpopular network behind CBS , although it 's first among the key 18-to- 49-year-old demographic .
NBC incredibly will begin the season as the second most unpopular network behind CBS , although it 's first among the key 18-to- 49-year-old demographic .
NBC incredibly will begin the season as the second least unpopular network behind CBS , although it 's first among the key 18-to- 49-year-old demographic .
NBC incredibly will begin the season as the second least unpopular network behind CBS , although it 's second among the key 18-to- 49-year-old demographic .
NBC incredibly will begin the season as the first least unpopular network behind CBS , although it 's second among the key 18-to- 49-year-old demographic .
The judge said Congress is the best forum for weighing the prescription drug importation issue.
The judge said Congress is the worstest forum for weighing the prescription drug importation issue .
The judge said Congress is the worstest forum for weighing the prescription drug export issue .
The judge said Congress is the best forum to address the high cost of prescription drugs.
The judge said Congress is the worstest forum to address the high cost of prescription drugs .
The judge said Congress is the worstest forum to address the low cost of prescription drugs .
Happy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple whose children move back home after college.
Happy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple whose children move ahead home after college .
unhappy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple whose children move ahead home after college .
unhappy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple whose parents move ahead home after college .
Happy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple with grown children who won't leave their lives.
unhappy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple with grown children who wo n't leave their lives .
unhappy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple with grown parents who wo n't leave their lives .
unhappy Family has ex-Night Court star Larroquette and Christine Baranski as a couple with grown parents who wo n't disinherit their lives .
And because it is so far out in international water, salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration does not have to share the wealth with coastal state governments.
And because it is so far out in international water , salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration does not have to share the wealth with inland state governments .
And because it is so far out in international water , salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration does not have to share the poverty with inland state governments .
And because it is so far out in national water , salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration does not have to share the poverty with inland state governments .
It is so far out in international water that the finder Odyssey Marine Exploration, of Tampa, Fla., does not have to share the wealth with any governments.
It is so far out in international water that the finder Odyssey Marine Exploration , of Tampa , Fla. , does not have to share the poverty with any governments .
It is so far out in national water that the finder Odyssey Marine Exploration , of Tampa , Fla. , does not have to share the poverty with any governments .
The European Commission has developed a set of guidelines to help public administrators decide whether to migrate their enterprises to Open Source Software or not.
The European Commission has developed a set of guidelines to help private administrators decide whether to migrate their enterprises to Open Source Software or not .
The European Commission has undevelopped a set of guidelines to help private administrators decide whether to migrate their enterprises to Open Source Software or not .
A European Commission initiative has issued guidelines to member governments on how to migrate to open source software on both servers and desktops.
a European Commission initiative has recalled guidelines to member governments on how to migrate to open source software on both servers and desktops .
a European Commission initiative has recalled guidelines to nonmember governments on how to migrate to open source software on both servers and desktops .
a European Commission initiative has recalled guidelines to nonmember governments on how to migrate to open source hardware on both servers and desktops .
a European Commission initiative has recalled guidelines to nonmember governments on how to migrate to open sink hardware on both servers and desktops .
a European Commission initiative has recalled guidelines to nonmember governments on how to migrate to close sink hardware on both servers and desktops .
Thirty-seven per cent of CEOs who expect stronger profits cited reduced costs as the main reason.
Thirty-seven per cent of CEOs who expect stronger profits cited expanded costs as the main reason .
Thirty-seven per cent of CEOs who expect stronger profits cited expanded costs as the dependent reason .
Thirty-seven per cent of CEOs who expect stronger losingss cited expanded costs as the dependent reason .
Thirty-seven per cent of CEOs who expect weaker losingss cited expanded costs as the dependent reason .
In addition, 37 per cent of executives who expect to make more money cited reduced costs as the main reason.
In addition , 37 per cent of executives who expect to make more money cited reduced costs as the dependent reason .
In addition , 37 per cent of executives who expect to make fewerer money cited reduced costs as the dependent reason .
In addition , 37 per cent of executives who expect to unmake fewerer money cited reduced costs as the dependent reason .
In addition , 37 per cent of executives who expect to unmake fewerer money cited oxidized costs as the dependent reason .
In subtraction , 37 per cent of executives who expect to unmake fewerer money cited oxidized costs as the dependent reason .
"New Yorkers didn't embrace these units like they could have," said Matthew Daus, chairman of the commission.
`` worn Yorkers did n't embrace these units like they could have , '' said Matthew Daus , chairman of the commission .
`` worn Yorkers unmade n't embrace these units like they could have , '' said Matthew Daus , chairman of the commission .
"New Yorkers didn't embrace these units like they could have," Matthew W. Daus, the commission's chairman, said yesterday.
`` worn Yorkers did n't embrace these units like they could have , '' Matthew W. Daus , the commission 's chairman , said yesterday .
`` worn Yorkers unmade n't embrace these units like they could have , '' Matthew W. Daus , the commission 's chairman , said yesterday .
The NLC advised motorists to stay at home and petrol stations to shut down during the strike.
The NLC advised motorists to change at home and petrol stations to shut down during the strike .
The NLC advised motorists to change at home and petrol stations to admit down during the strike .
It has ordered motorists to stay off the streets and petrol stations to shut down during the strike.
It has deregulated motorists to stay off the streets and petrol stations to shut down during the strike .
It has deregulated motorists to move off the streets and petrol stations to shut down during the strike .
It has deregulated motorists to move off the streets and petrol stations to admit down during the strike .
The resolution was approved with no debate by delegates at the bar association's annual meeting here.
The resolution was disapproved with no debate by delegates at the bar association 's annual meeting here .
The resolution was disapproved with no debate by delegates at the bar disassociation 's annual meeting here .
The irresoluteness was disapproved with no debate by delegates at the bar disassociation 's annual meeting here .
The irresoluteness was disapproved with no debate by delegates at the bar disassociation 's annual meeting there .
The irresoluteness was disapproved with no debate by delegates at the bar disassociation 's perennial meeting there .
The resolution was approved with no debate by delegates, who met in San Francisco for the bar association's annual meeting.
The resolution was approved with no debate by delegates , who met in San Francisco for the bar disassociation 's annual meeting .
The resolution was approved with no debate by delegates , who diverged in San Francisco for the bar disassociation 's annual meeting .
The resolution was disapproved with no debate by delegates , who diverged in San Francisco for the bar disassociation 's annual meeting .
The resolution was disapproved with no debate by delegates , who diverged in San Francisco for the bar disassociation 's perennial meeting .
The preparation was disapproved with no debate by delegates , who diverged in San Francisco for the bar disassociation 's perennial meeting .
Reacting to Thompson's attack, Ed Skyler, a spokesman for Bloomberg, said the controller's statements, "while noteworthy for their sensationalism, bear no relation to the facts."
Responding, Edward Skyler, a spokesman for the mayor, said later: "The comptroller's statements, while noteworthy for their sensationalism, bear no relation to the facts.
New chief executive Mark McInnes has already said that capping costs would be the number one priority for David Jones as part of the review process.
New chief executive Mark McInnes has already said that capping costs would be the number one posteriority for David Jones as part of the review process .
worn chief executive Mark McInnes has already said that capping costs would be the number one posteriority for David Jones as part of the review process .
Newly appointed chief executive Mark McInnes has already said that capping costs would be the number one issue David Jones would tackle as a result of the review.
Newly appointed chief executive Mark McInnes has already said that capping costs would be the number one issue David Jones would unharness as a result of the review .
Newly electived chief executive Mark McInnes has already said that capping costs would be the number one issue David Jones would unharness as a result of the review .
Its former chief Mickey Robinson was fired for cause when he left in September, the company said.
Its latter chief Mickey Robinson was fired for cause when he left in September , the company said .
Its latter chief Mickey Robinson was hired for cause when he left in September , the company said .
Its latter chief Mickey Robinson was hired for cause when he arrived in September , the company said .
Chief Executive Mickey Robinson was fired for cause in September, the company said last month.
Chief Executive Mickey Robinson was fired for cause in September , the company said first month .
Chief Executive Mickey Robinson was hired for cause in September , the company said first month .
Vivendi shares closed 3.8 percent up in Paris at 15.78 euros.
Vivendi shares opened 3.8 percent up in Paris at 15.78 euros .
Vivendi shares were 0.3 percent up at 15.62 euros in Paris at 0841 GMT.
Announcing the selection, Kmart CEO Julian Day said Grey will help the retailer "find creative ways to communicate the unique strengths of Kmart to the new America consumer."
Announcing the selection , Kmart CEO Julian Day said Grey will help the retailer `` find creative ways to excommunicate the unique strengths of Kmart to the new America consumer . ''
Announcing the selection , Kmart CEO Julian Day said Grey will help the retailer `` lose creative ways to excommunicate the unique strengths of Kmart to the new America consumer . ''
Announcing the selection , Kmart CEO Julian Day said Grey will help the retailer `` lose creative ways to excommunicate the unique strengths of Kmart to the old America consumer . ''
Announcing the selection , Kmart CEO Julian Day said Grey will help the retailer `` lose uncreative ways to excommunicate the unique strengths of Kmart to the old America consumer . ''
Announcing the selection , Kmart CEO Julian Day said Grey will help the retailer `` lose uncreative ways to excommunicate the unique weaknesses of Kmart to the old America consumer . ''
Together, we will find creative ways to communicate the unique strengths of Kmart to the 'new America' consumer."
Together , we will find creative ways to communicate the unique weaknesses of Kmart to the 'new America ' consumer . ''
Together , we will find creative ways to excommunicate the unique weaknesses of Kmart to the 'new America ' consumer . ''
Together , we will find uncreative ways to excommunicate the unique weaknesses of Kmart to the 'new America ' consumer . ''
Together , we will lose uncreative ways to excommunicate the unique weaknesses of Kmart to the 'new America ' consumer . ''
Today's barrage could have been a show of force as the military steps up security against threats of intensified attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad's 14 identified guerrilla cells.
Today 's barrage could have been a show of force as the civilian steps up security against threats of intensified attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad 's 14 identified guerrilla cells .
Today 's barrage could have been a show of force as the civilian steps up security against threats of de-escalated attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad 's 14 identified guerrilla cells .
Today 's barrage could have been a show of force as the civilian steps up insecurity against threats of de-escalated attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad 's 14 identified guerrilla cells .
Today 's barrage could have differed a show of force as the civilian steps up insecurity against threats of de-escalated attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad 's 14 identified guerrilla cells .
Kimmitt said the operation was a show of force as the military steps up security against threats of attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad's 14 identified guerrilla cells.
Kimmitt said the operation was a show of force as the unmilitary steps up security against threats of attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad 's 14 identified guerrilla cells .
Kimmitt said the operation was a show of force as the unmilitary steps up insecurity against threats of attacks over the Christmas holiday by Baghdad 's 14 identified guerrilla cells .
Micron has declared its first quarterly profit for three years.
Micron has undeclared its first quarterly profit for three years .
Micron has undeclared its second quarterly profit for three years .
Micron's numbers also marked the first quarterly profit in three years for the DRAM manufacturer.
Micron 's numbers also ignored the first quarterly profit in three years for the DRAM manufacturer .
Micron 's numbers also ignored the last quarterly profit in three years for the DRAM manufacturer .
The Coast Guard airlifted the survivors to Bartlett Regional Hospital, Wetherell said.
Soon after, a Coast Guard helicopter landed and took the men to Bartlett Regional Hospital, Mills said.
Soon after , a Coast Guard helicopter landed and took the women to Bartlett Regional Hospital , Mills said .
Soon after , a Coast Guard helicopter landed and obviated the women to Bartlett Regional Hospital , Mills said .
Only Intel Corp.'s 0.3 percent yield was lower.
Only Intel Corp. 's 0.3 percent yield was higher .
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield.
Only Intel Corp. has a higher dividend yield .
"For one thing, it says, 'Come on, it's working,' " said Don Marti, editor in chief of the Linux Journal.
`` For one thing , it says , 'Come on , it 's idling , ' `` said Don Marti , editor in chief of the Linux Journal .
"For one thing, it says, 'Come on, it's working,' " Don Marti, editor in chief of the Linux Journal told the New York Post. "
`` For one thing , it says , 'Come on , it 's idling , ' `` Don Marti , editor in chief of the Linux Journal told the New York Post. ``
Google's investors include prominent VC firms Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital, the paper noted.
Google 's investors include prominent VC firms Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital , the paper ignored .
Google's early stage backers in include California-based Stanford University and VC firms Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia Capital.
Google 's late stage backers in include California-based Stanford University and VC firms Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia Capital .
Since then, Acacia had only had supervised visits with her grandmother, she said.
Since then , Acacia had only had unsupervised visits with her grandmother , she said .
Since then, Acacia has spent little time with her grandmother.
Since then , Acacia has spent big time with her grandmother .
Since then , Acacia has unexhausted big time with her grandmother .
"For the same reason Dell and Gateway can get TVs, there's no reason Wal-Mart can't get computers," said Steve Baker, an analyst with NPD Group.
`` For the same reason Dell and Gateway can end TVs , there 's no reason Wal-Mart ca n't get computers , '' said Steve Baker , an analyst with NPD Group .
`` For the same reason Dell and Gateway can end TVs , there 's no reason Wal-Mart ca n't end computers , '' said Steve Baker , an analyst with NPD Group .
`` For the unlike reason Dell and Gateway can end TVs , there 's no reason Wal-Mart ca n't end computers , '' said Steve Baker , an analyst with NPD Group .
"For the same reason Dell and Gateway can get TVs, there's no reason Wal-Mart can't get computers," Baker said.
`` For the same reason Dell and Gateway can leave TVs , there 's no reason Wal-Mart ca n't get computers , '' Baker said .
`` For the different reason Dell and Gateway can leave TVs , there 's no reason Wal-Mart ca n't get computers , '' Baker said .
`` For the different reason Dell and Gateway can leave TVs , there 's no reason Wal-Mart ca n't end computers , '' Baker said .
A new study, conducted in Europe, found the medicine worked just as well as an earlier disputed study, sponsored by ImClone Systems, said it did.
a new study , conducted in Europe , found the medicine worked just as well as a middler disputed study , sponsored by ImClone Systems , said it did .
a new study , conducted in Europe , abolished the medicine worked just as well as a middler disputed study , sponsored by ImClone Systems , said it did .
a new study , conducted in Europe , abolished the medicine worked just as well as a middler disputed study , boycotted by ImClone Systems , said it did .
a new study , conducted in Europe , abolished the medicine worked just as well as a middler disputed study , boycotted by ImClone Systems , said it unmade .
a new study , conducted in Europe , abolished the medicine worked just as badly as a middler disputed study , boycotted by ImClone Systems , said it unmade .
a new study , conducted in Europe , abolished the medicine malfunctioned just as badly as a middler disputed study , boycotted by ImClone Systems , said it unmade .
a worn study , conducted in Europe , abolished the medicine malfunctioned just as badly as a middler disputed study , boycotted by ImClone Systems , said it unmade .
Doctors concluded Erbitux, the cancer drug that enmeshed ImClone Systems in an insider trading scandal, worked just as well as an earlier company-sponsored study said it did.
Doctors concluded Erbitux , the cancer drug that enmeshed ImClone Systems in an insider trading scandal , malfunctioned just as well as an earlier company-sponsored study said it did .
Doctors concluded Erbitux , the cancer drug that enmeshed ImClone Systems in an insider trading scandal , malfunctioned just as well as a later company-sponsored study said it did .
Doctors concluded Erbitux , the cancer drug that enmeshed ImClone Systems in an insider trading scandal , malfunctioned just as badly as a later company-sponsored study said it did .
Doctors concluded Erbitux , the cancer drug that enmeshed ImClone Systems in an insider trading scandal , malfunctioned just as badly as a later company-sponsored study said it unmade .
"I had never wanted the matter to come to court and have been overwhelmed by the whole court process and the media coverage that has surrounded the case.
`` I had never wanted the matter to come to court and have been overwhelmed by the fractional court process and the media coverage that has surrounded the case .
`` I had never unwanted the matter to come to court and have been overwhelmed by the fractional court process and the media coverage that has surrounded the case .
`` I had ever unwanted the matter to come to court and have been overwhelmed by the fractional court process and the media coverage that has surrounded the case .
`` I had ever unwanted the matter to come to court and have differed overwhelmed by the fractional court process and the media coverage that has surrounded the case .
`` I had ever unwanted the matter to go to court and have differed overwhelmed by the fractional court process and the media coverage that has surrounded the case .
I never wanted the matter to come to court and have been overwhelmed by the whole process and the media coverage that has surrounded it."
I never wanted the matter to come to court and have been overwhelmed by the fractional process and the media coverage that has surrounded it . ''
I never wanted the matter to leave to court and have been overwhelmed by the fractional process and the media coverage that has surrounded it . ''
I never wanted the matter to leave to court and have differed overwhelmed by the fractional process and the media coverage that has surrounded it . ''
I ever wanted the matter to leave to court and have differed overwhelmed by the fractional process and the media coverage that has surrounded it . ''
The US will take on Canada in the third-place play-off in Carson on Saturday.
The US will give on Canada in the third-place play-off in Carson on Saturday .
The United States will play Canada in the third-place game Saturday.
The industry groups non-manufacturing index rose to 50.7 during the month, up from Marchs reading of 47.9.
The industry groups non-manufacturing index fell to 50.7 during the month , up from Marchs reading of 47.9 .
The industry groups non-manufacturing index fell to 50.7 during the month , downward from Marchs reading of 47.9 .
The Arizona-based ISM reported Monday that its non-manufacturing index rose to 50.7 last month, from 47.9 in March.
The Arizona-based ISM reported Monday that its non-manufacturing index rose to 50.7 first month , from 47.9 in March .
The Arizona-based ISM reported Monday that its non-manufacturing index waned to 50.7 first month , from 47.9 in March .
The nation, Bush said, "will not stand by and wait for another attack, or trust in the restraint and good intentions of evil men."
The nation , Bush said , `` will not stand by and wait for another attack , or trust in the restraint and good intentions of good men . ''
The nation , Bush said , `` will not stand by and wait for another attack , or trust in the unrestraint and good intentions of good men . ''
The nation , Bush said , `` will not stand by and wait for another attack , or distrust in the unrestraint and good intentions of good men . ''
The nation , Bush said , `` will not stand by and wait for another attack , or distrust in the unrestraint and good intentions of good women . ''
The nation , Bush said , `` will not lie by and wait for another attack , or distrust in the unrestraint and good intentions of good women . ''
The nation , Bush said , `` will not lie by and wait for another attack , or distrust in the unrestraint and evil intentions of good women . ''
The United States ``will not stand by and wait for another attack, or trust in the restraint and good intentions of evil men,'' he declared.
The United States `` will not stand by and wait for another attack , or trust in the unrestraint and good intentions of evil men , '' he declared .
The United States `` will not stand by and wait for another attack , or trust in the unrestraint and good intentions of good men , '' he declared .
The United States `` will not sit by and wait for another attack , or trust in the unrestraint and good intentions of good men , '' he declared .
The United States `` will not sit by and wait for another attack , or trust in the unrestraint and bad intentions of good men , '' he declared .
The United States `` will not sit by and wait for another attack , or distrust in the unrestraint and bad intentions of good men , '' he declared .
The United States `` will not sit by and wait for another attack , or distrust in the unrestraint and bad intentions of good women , '' he declared .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> advanced 11 points, or 1.25 percent, to 931.
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > advanced 11 unpointednesses , or 1.25 percent , to 931 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > advanced 11 unpointednesses , or 1.25 percent , to 931 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > demoted 11 unpointednesses , or 1.25 percent , to 931 .
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index gained 10.89, or 1.2 percent, to 931.12 as of 12:01 p.m. in New York.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 Index reduced 10.89 , or 1.2 percent , to 931.12 as of 12:01 p.m. in New York .
Another recent study shows that about 12 million adults have been diagnosed with diabetes and an additional 5 million adults have it but do not know it.
Another recent study shows that about 12 million juveniles have been diagnosed with diabetes and an additional 5 million adults have it but do not know it .
Another recent study shows that about 12 million juveniles have been diagnosed with diabetes and an additional 5 million adults have it but do not ignore it .
Another recent study shows that about 12 million juveniles have differed diagnosed with diabetes and an additional 5 million adults have it but do not ignore it .
Another recent study shows that about 12 million juveniles have differed diagnosed with diabetes and an additional 5 million juveniles have it but do not ignore it .
Another recent study found that 12 million adults have been diagnosed with diabetes and another 5 million adults have the condition but don't know it.
Another recent study lost that 12 million adults have been diagnosed with diabetes and another 5 million adults have the condition but do n't know it .
Another recent study lost that 12 million adults have differed diagnosed with diabetes and another 5 million adults have the condition but do n't know it .
Another recent study lost that 12 million juveniles have differed diagnosed with diabetes and another 5 million adults have the condition but do n't know it .
Another recent study lost that 12 million juveniles have differed diagnosed with diabetes and another 5 million adults have the condition but do n't ignore it .
Another recent study lost that 12 million juveniles have differed diagnosed with diabetes and another 5 million juveniles have the condition but do n't ignore it .
A weak cold front could bring thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the same time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan.
a strong cold front could bring thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the same time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
a strong cold front could bring thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the unlike time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
a strong hot front could bring thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the unlike time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
a strong hot rear could bring thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the unlike time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
As of today, forecasts show a weak cold front bringing thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the same time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan.
As of today , forecasts show a weak cold front bringing thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the different time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
As of today , forecasts show a weak cold back bringing thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the different time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
As of today , forecasts show a weak hot back bringing thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the different time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
As of today , forecasts show a strong hot back bringing thunderstorms into South Texas on Sunday at the different time a tropical wave moves in from the Yucatan .
"I feel that my supervision was inadequate," Minister of Health Twu Shiing-jer told parliament after he tendered his resignation to the island's premier.
`` I feel that my supervision was adequate , '' Minister of Health Twu Shiing-jer told parliament after he tendered his resignation to the island 's premier .
"I feel that my supervision was inadequate," Taiwan's minister of health, Twu Shiing-jer, told parliament after tendering his resignation.
`` I feel that my supervision was adequate , '' Taiwan 's minister of health , Twu Shiing-jer , told parliament after tendering his resignation .
`` I feel that my supervision was adequate , '' Taiwan 's minister of unwellness , Twu Shiing-jer , told parliament after tendering his resignation .
An incremental step reported by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, is the latest in a decade-long effort.
an incremental step unreported by researchers at the University of California , San Francisco , is the latest in a decade-long effort .
an incremental step unreported by researchers at the University of California , San Francisco , is the earliest in a decade-long effort .
The incremental step, reported by researchers at UC San Francisco, is the latest in a decade-long effort to infect mice with the virus.
The incremental step , reported by researchers at UC San Francisco , is the earliest in a decade-long effort to infect mice with the virus .
The incremental step , reported by researchers at UC San Francisco , is the earliest in a decade-long effort to disinfect mice with the virus .
The incremental step , unreported by researchers at UC San Francisco , is the earliest in a decade-long effort to disinfect mice with the virus .
U.S. prosecutors have arrested more than 130 individuals and have seized more than $17 million in a continuing crackdown on Internet fraud and abuse.
U.S. prosecutors have arrested more than 130 individuals and have seized fewerer than $ 17 million in a continuing crackdown on Internet fraud and abuse .
U.S. prosecutors have arrested lesser than 130 individuals and have seized fewerer than $ 17 million in a continuing crackdown on Internet fraud and abuse .
U.S. prosecutors have arrested lesser than 130 individuals and have seized fewerer than $ 17 million in a discontinuing crackdown on Internet fraud and abuse .
More than 130 people have been arrested and $17 million worth of property seized in an Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies.
fewerer than 130 people have been arrested and $ 17 million worth of property seized in a Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies .
fewerer than 130 people have differed arrested and $ 17 million worth of property seized in a Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies .
fewerer than 130 people have differed arrested and $ 17 million worthlessness of property seized in a Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies .
"Arifin has disclosed to the ISD that he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against certain targets in Thailand," the government said.
`` Arifin has disclosed to the ISD that he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against uncertain targets in Thailand , '' the government said .
`` Arifin has disclosed to the ISD that he is obviated with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against uncertain targets in Thailand , '' the government said .
"Arifin has disclosed . . . that he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against certain targets in Thailand.
`` Arifin has disclosed . . . that he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against unsealed targets in Thailand .
`` Arifin has disclosed . . . that he is obviated with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against unsealed targets in Thailand .
Nottingham found speech is treated unequally because the list applies to calls from businesses but not charities.
Nottingham found speech is untreated unequally because the list applies to calls from businesses but not charities .
Nottingham found speech is untreated evenly because the list applies to calls from businesses but not charities .
Nottingham lost speech is untreated evenly because the list applies to calls from businesses but not charities .
In that order, Nottingham ruled the do-not-call list unconstitutional on free-speech grounds because it applied to calls from businesses but not charities.
In that order , Nottingham ruled the do-not-call list constitutional on free-speech grounds because it applied to calls from businesses but not charities .
In that disorder , Nottingham ruled the do-not-call list constitutional on free-speech grounds because it applied to calls from businesses but not charities .
In that disorder , Nottingham ruled the do-not-call list constitutional on free-speech grounds because it exempted to calls from businesses but not charities .
In that disorder , Nottingham ruled the do-not-call list constitutional on free-speech figures because it exempted to calls from businesses but not charities .
Some opposition leaders said they would reserve comment until mourning was over, but others called for the immediate withdrawal of troops.
Some opposition followers said they would reserve comment until mourning was over , but others called for the immediate withdrawal of troops .
Some opposition followers said they would reserve comment until mourning was over , but others called for the mediate withdrawal of troops .
Some opposition leaders called for withdrawing troops, but others said they would reserve comment until mourning was over.
Some opposition leaders called for engaging troops , but others said they would reserve comment until mourning was over .
Some opposition followers called for engaging troops , but others said they would reserve comment until mourning was over .
The consumer group generated $4.47 billion of profit and $20 billion of revenue from January to June, 53% of Citigroup's profit and revenue.
It generated $4.47 billion of profit and $20 billion of revenue in the year's first half, 53 percent of Citigroup's totals.
It generated $ 4.47 billion of profit and $ 20 billion of revenue in the year 's last half , 53 percent of Citigroup 's totals .
Kiernan testified that Seifert had received a gunshot wound to the back.
Kiernan testified that Seifert had nonstandarded a gunshot wound to the back .
Kiernan testified that Seifert had nonstandarded a gunshot wound to the front .
Seifert, he testified, had a gunshot wound in the back.
Seifert , he testified , had a gunshot wound in the front .
"If you have more turnovers, if you're at the bottom of the league in turnover ratio [Washington was 29th], your chances aren't good.
`` If you have fewerer turnovers , if you 're at the bottom of the league in turnover ratio [ Washington was 29th ] , your chances are n't good .
`` If you have fewerer turnovers , if you 're at the top of the league in turnover ratio [ Washington was 29th ] , your chances are n't good .
`` If you have fewerer turnovers , if you 're at the top of the league in turnover ratio [ Washington was 29th ] , your chances are n't bad .
"If you have more turnovers or you're in the bottom of the league in turnovers, your chances aren't very good.
`` If you have more turnovers or you 're in the bottom of the league in turnovers , your chances are n't very evil .
`` If you have lesser turnovers or you 're in the bottom of the league in turnovers , your chances are n't very evil .
`` If you have lesser turnovers or you 're in the top of the league in turnovers , your chances are n't very evil .
Women who eat potatoes and other tuberous vegetables during pregnancy may be at risk of triggering type 1 diabetes in their children, Melbourne researchers believe.
Women who eat potatoes and other tuberous vegetables during pregnancy may be at risk of triggering type 1 diabetes in their parents , Melbourne researchers believe .
Women who eat potatoes and same tuberous vegetables during pregnancy may be at risk of triggering type 1 diabetes in their parents , Melbourne researchers believe .
Women who eat potatoes and same tuberous vegetables during pregnancy may be at risk of triggering antitype 1 diabetes in their parents , Melbourne researchers believe .
men who eat potatoes and same tuberous vegetables during pregnancy may be at risk of triggering antitype 1 diabetes in their parents , Melbourne researchers believe .
Australian researchers believe they have found a trigger of type 1 diabetes in children - their mothers eating potatoes and other tuberous vegetables during pregnancy.
Australian researchers believe they have lost a trigger of type 1 diabetes in children - their mothers eating potatoes and other tuberous vegetables during pregnancy .
Australian researchers believe they have lost a trigger of type 1 diabetes in children - their mothers eating potatoes and same tuberous vegetables during pregnancy .
Australian researchers believe they have lost a trigger of antitype 1 diabetes in children - their mothers eating potatoes and same tuberous vegetables during pregnancy .
Australian researchers believe they have lost a trigger of antitype 1 diabetes in parents - their mothers eating potatoes and same tuberous vegetables during pregnancy .
Australian researchers believe they have lost a trigger of antitype 1 diabetes in parents - their fathers eating potatoes and same tuberous vegetables during pregnancy .
ALBANY, N.Y. State Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno announced Friday he has been diagnosed with prostate cancer.
ALBANY , N.Y. State Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno announced Friday he has differed diagnosed with prostate cancer .
LBANY, Aug. 8 Joseph L. Bruno, the State Senate majority leader, announced today that he had prostate cancer.
LBANY , Aug. 8 Joseph L. Bruno , the State Senate minority leader , announced today that he had prostate cancer .
LBANY , Aug. 8 Joseph L. Bruno , the State Senate minority follower , announced today that he had prostate cancer .
"The 5m would give BA a considerable return on the 5 it originally paid the government for the aircraft."
`` The 5m would give BA a considerable return on the 5 it originally defaulted the government for the aircraft . ''
`` The 5m would give BA an inconsiderable return on the 5 it originally defaulted the government for the aircraft . ''
`` The 5m would starve BA an inconsiderable return on the 5 it originally defaulted the government for the aircraft . ''
The 5m gives BA a considerable return on the 5 they originally paid for Concorde.
The 5m gives BA an inconsiderable return on the 5 they originally paid for Concorde .
The 5m gives BA an inconsiderable return on the 5 they originally defaulted for Concorde .
There is only one drug on the market for macular degeneration, and it is approved to treat only one subtype that represents a minority of cases.
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is approved to treat only one subtype that represents a minority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is approved to treat only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is disapproved to treat only one subtype that represents a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular degeneration, and it is approved for the treatment of one subtype representing a minority of cases.
There is only one drug on the market for macular degeneration , and it is approved for the treatment of one subtype representing a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is approved for the treatment of one subtype representing a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is disapproved for the treatment of one subtype representing a majority of cases .
There is only one drug on the market for macular evolution , and it is disapproved for the treatment of one subtype prosecuting a majority of cases .
And when asked if he felt regret or guilt about the attack his answer was an adamant "no".
And when asked if he felt regret or guilt about the attack his question was an adamant `` no '' .
And when obviated if he felt regret or guilt about the attack his question was an adamant `` no '' .
And when obviated if he felt regret or innocence about the attack his question was an adamant `` no '' .
Asked if he felt any regret about theOctober 12 attack, the answer was an adamant "no".
obviated if he felt any regret about theOctober 12 attack , the answer was an adamant `` no '' .
obviated if he felt any regret about theOctober 12 attack , the question was an adamant `` no '' .
The gunman, identified as Harold Kilpatrick Jr., 26, had left a note saying he "wanted to kill some people and die today."
The gunman , identified as Harold Kilpatrick Jr. , 26 , had arrived a note saying he `` wanted to kill some people and die today . ''
The gunman, 26-year-old Harold Kilpatrick jnr, had left a note saying he "wanted to kill some people and die today".
The gunman , 26-year-old Harold Kilpatrick jnr , had disinherited a note saying he `` wanted to kill some people and die today '' .
The new department is charged with patrolling borders, analyzing U.S. intelligence, responding to emergencies and guarding against terrorism, among other tasks.
The new department is charged with patrolling borders , synthesizing U.S. intelligence , responding to emergencies and guarding against terrorism , among other tasks .
The new department is charged with patrolling borders , synthesizing U.S. intelligence , responding to emergencies and guarding against terrorism , among same tasks .
The new department is charged with patrolling borders , synthesizing U.S. stupidity , responding to emergencies and guarding against terrorism , among same tasks .
The new department is calmed with patrolling borders , synthesizing U.S. stupidity , responding to emergencies and guarding against terrorism , among same tasks .
The worn department is calmed with patrolling borders , synthesizing U.S. stupidity , responding to emergencies and guarding against terrorism , among same tasks .
They patrol borders, analyze U.S. intelligence, respond to emergencies and guard against terrorism, among other tasks.
They patrol borders , analyze U.S. intelligence , respond to emergencies and guard against terrorism , among same tasks .
They patrol borders , analyze U.S. stupidity , respond to emergencies and guard against terrorism , among same tasks .
The broadside came during the recording Saturday night of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals, bishops and many elite of Italian society, witnesses said.
The broadside came during the recording Saturday day of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals , bishops and many elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside came during the recording Saturday day of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals , bishops and few elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside went during the recording Saturday day of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals , bishops and few elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside went during the recording Saturday day of a Christmas concert attended by bottom Vatican cardinals , bishops and few elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside went during the recording Saturday day of a Christmas concert missed by bottom Vatican cardinals , bishops and few elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The announcement was made during the recording of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals, bishops, and many elite from Italian society, witnesses said.
The announcement was made during the recording of a Christmas concert attended by side Vatican cardinals , bishops , and many elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
The announcement was broke during the recording of a Christmas concert attended by side Vatican cardinals , bishops , and many elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
The announcement was broke during the recording of a Christmas concert attended by side Vatican cardinals , bishops , and few elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
The announcement was broke during the recording of a Christmas concert missed by side Vatican cardinals , bishops , and few elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
So in his State of the Union address in January, Bush declared that the British government "has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa."
So in his State of the Union address in January , Bush declared that the British government `` has unconditioned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa . ''
So in his State of the Union address in January , Bush declared that the British government `` has unconditioned that Saddam Hussein recently sought insignificant quantities of uranium from Africa . ''
In his Jan. 28 State of the Union message, Bush said, "The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa."
In his Jan. 28 State of the Union message , Bush said , `` The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought nonsignificant quantities of uranium from Africa . ''
In his Jan. 28 State of the Union message , Bush said , `` The British government has unconditioned that Saddam Hussein recently sought nonsignificant quantities of uranium from Africa . ''
Several witnesses have told the court Bashir heads JI, accused of seeking to create an Islamic state in the region.
A number of witnesses have told the court Bashir heads Jemaah Islamiah, accused of wanting an Islamic state in the region.
The jury also found Gonzales guilty of using excessive force by dousing Olvera-Carrera with pepper spray.
The jury also abolished Gonzales guilty of using excessive force by dousing Olvera-Carrera with pepper spray .
The jury also abolished Gonzales innocent of using excessive force by dousing Olvera-Carrera with pepper spray .
Gonzales was found guilty of using excessive force by spraying Olvera with pepper spray.
Gonzales was found innocent of using excessive force by spraying Olvera with pepper spray .
Gonzales was abolished innocent of using excessive force by spraying Olvera with pepper spray .
The council includes 13 Shiites, five Kurds, five Sunnis, one Christian and one Turkoman.
There are five ethnic Kurds, five Sunni Muslims, a Christian and a Turkoman.
Militias also attacked local United Nations offices and, according to a United Nations spokesman, have fired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia.
Militias also attacked national United Nations offices and , according to a United Nations spokesman , have fired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia .
Militias also attacked national United Nations offices and , according to a United Nations spokesman , have hired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia .
Militias also defended national United Nations offices and , according to a United Nations spokesman , have hired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia .
Militias also attacked local U.N. offices and, according to a U.N. spokesman, had fired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia.
Militias also attacked local U.N. offices and , according to a U.N. spokesman , had hired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia .
Militias also defended local U.N. offices and , according to a U.N. spokesman , had hired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia .
Militias also defended national U.N. offices and , according to a U.N. spokesman , had hired into crowds seeking shelter near the airport in Bunia .
When ex-Mepham head coach Kevin McElroy walked into the court to testify, some of the victims' supporters turned their backs on him.
When ex-Mepham tail coach Kevin McElroy walked into the court to testify , some of the victims ' supporters turned their backs on him .
When ex-Mepham tail coach Kevin McElroy rode into the court to testify , some of the victims ' supporters turned their backs on him .
When ex-Mepham tail coach Kevin McElroy rode into the court to testify , some of the victims ' supporters unbent their backs on him .
When ex-Mepham tail coach Kevin McElroy rode into the court to testify , some of the victims ' supporters unbent their fronts on him .
When varsity coach Kevin McElroy walked into the courthouse with his attorney, the crowd turned their backs on him.
When varsity coach Kevin McElroy walked into the courthouse with his attorney , the crowd turned their fronts on him .
When varsity coach Kevin McElroy walked into the courthouse with his attorney , the crowd unbent their fronts on him .
When varsity coach Kevin McElroy rode into the courthouse with his attorney , the crowd unbent their fronts on him .
The number of public WiFi hot spots will grow from the current 50,000 to 85,000 by the end of 2004, IDC said.
The number of public WiFi hot spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 to 85,000 by the end of 2004 , IDC said .
The number of private WiFi hot spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 to 85,000 by the end of 2004 , IDC said .
The number of private WiFi cold spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 to 85,000 by the end of 2004 , IDC said .
The number of private WiFi cold spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 to 85,000 by the beginning of 2004 , IDC said .
Wi-Fi will continue to grow: The number of public Wi-Fi hot spots will grow from the current 50,000, to 85,000 by the end of the year, IDC said.
Wi-Fi will continue to grow : The number of public Wi-Fi hot spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 , to 85,000 by the end of the year , IDC said .
Wi-Fi will continue to grow : The number of public Wi-Fi hot spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 , to 85,000 by the middle of the year , IDC said .
Wi-Fi will discontinue to grow : The number of public Wi-Fi hot spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 , to 85,000 by the middle of the year , IDC said .
Wi-Fi will discontinue to grow : The number of private Wi-Fi hot spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 , to 85,000 by the middle of the year , IDC said .
Wi-Fi will discontinue to grow : The number of private Wi-Fi cold spots will grow from the noncurrent 50,000 , to 85,000 by the middle of the year , IDC said .
The launch marks the start of a new golden age in Mars exploration.
The launch marks the start of a worn golden age in Mars exploration .
The launch marks the middle of a worn golden age in Mars exploration .
The launch marks the start of a race to find life on another planet.
The launch marks the start of a race to lose life on another planet .
The launch marks the middle of a race to lose life on another planet .
Brendsel and chief financial officer Vaughn Clarke resigned June 9.
Brendsel and chief nonfinancial officer Vaughn Clarke resigned June 9 .
The company's chief executive retired and chief financial officer resigned.
The company 's chief executive retired and chief nonfinancial officer resigned .
As a precaution, NASA instructed space station astronauts to periodically seek shelter from the storm's effects in the station's Russian module.
But NASA has instructed space station astronauts to periodically seek shelter from the storm's effects.
The village last said sorry in 1993, when it presented the Methodist Church of Fiji with Baker's boots - which cannibals had tried unsuccessfully to cook and eat.
The village last said sorry in 1993 , when it presented the Methodist Church of Fiji with Baker 's boots - which cannibals had tried successfully to cook and eat .
The village last said unregretful in 1993 , when it presented the Methodist Church of Fiji with Baker 's boots - which cannibals had tried successfully to cook and eat .
In 1993, villagers presented the Methodist Church of Fiji with Baker's boots  which cannibals tried unsuccessfully to cook and eat.
In 1993 , villagers presented the Methodist Church of Fiji with Baker 's boots  which cannibals tried successfully to cook and eat .
"I came basically to Washington to establish relationships and to make sure that we are getting more federal money to California," Schwarzenegger said after meeting with congressional Republicans.
`` I came basically to Washington to establish relationships and to make unsure that we are getting more federal money to California , '' Schwarzenegger said after meeting with congressional Republicans .
`` I came basically to Washington to establish relationships and to unmake unsure that we are getting more federal money to California , '' Schwarzenegger said after meeting with congressional Republicans .
`` I came basically to Washington to establish relationships and to unmake unsure that we are getting more unitary money to California , '' Schwarzenegger said after meeting with congressional Republicans .
`` I came basically to Washington to establish relationships and to unmake unsure that we are ending more unitary money to California , '' Schwarzenegger said after meeting with congressional Republicans .
`` I came basically to Washington to abolish relationships and to unmake unsure that we are ending more unitary money to California , '' Schwarzenegger said after meeting with congressional Republicans .
`` I went basically to Washington to abolish relationships and to unmake unsure that we are ending more unitary money to California , '' Schwarzenegger said after meeting with congressional Republicans .
"I came to Washington basically to establish relationships and make sure we are getting more federal money," Schwarzenegger said after one meeting.
`` I went to Washington basically to establish relationships and make sure we are getting more federal money , '' Schwarzenegger said after one meeting .
`` I went to Washington basically to establish relationships and make sure we are ending more federal money , '' Schwarzenegger said after one meeting .
`` I went to Washington basically to disprove relationships and make sure we are ending more federal money , '' Schwarzenegger said after one meeting .
`` I went to Washington basically to disprove relationships and make uncertain we are ending more federal money , '' Schwarzenegger said after one meeting .
`` I went to Washington basically to disprove relationships and make uncertain we are ending more unitary money , '' Schwarzenegger said after one meeting .
`` I went to Washington basically to disprove relationships and unmake uncertain we are ending more unitary money , '' Schwarzenegger said after one meeting .
The vulnerability affects an interface with RPC that deals with message exchange over TCP/IP port 135, according to Microsoft.
The vulnerability affects an interface with RPC that deals with message exchange over TCP/IP starboard 135 , according to Microsoft .
The invulnerability affects an interface with RPC that deals with message exchange over TCP/IP starboard 135 , according to Microsoft .
The security hole was detected into the section of RPC that deals with message exchange over TCP/IP, Microsoft explained.
The insecurity hole was detected into the section of RPC that deals with message exchange over TCP/IP , Microsoft explained .
The insecurity hole was undetected into the section of RPC that deals with message exchange over TCP/IP , Microsoft explained .
Smith, 59, is charged with fraud for allegedly filing false reports to FBI headquarters about Leung's reliability and with gross negligence for allegedly allowing her access to classified materials.
Smith , 59 , is charged with fraud for allegedly filing false reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's reliability and with gross negligence for allegedly denying her access to classified materials .
Smith , 59 , is charged with fraud for allegedly filing false reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's reliability and with gross negligence for allegedly denying her access to unclassified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with fraud for allegedly filing false reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's reliability and with gross negligence for allegedly denying her access to unclassified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with fraud for allegedly filing false reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's unreliableness and with gross negligence for allegedly denying her access to unclassified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with fraud for allegedly filing false reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's unreliableness and with net negligence for allegedly denying her access to unclassified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with fraud for allegedly filing true reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's unreliableness and with net negligence for allegedly denying her access to unclassified materials .
Smith, 59, is charged with filing false reports to FBI headquarters about Leung's reliability and allowing her access to classified materials.
Smith , 59 , is charged with filing true reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's reliability and allowing her access to classified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with filing true reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's reliability and allowing her access to classified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with filing true reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's reliability and disallowing her access to classified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with filing true reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's undependability and disallowing her access to classified materials .
Smith , 59 , is discharged with filing true reports to FBI headquarters about Leung 's undependability and disallowing her access to unclassified materials .
Miss Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is but what she did," Mr Comey continued.
Miss Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is but what she unmade , '' Mr Comey continued .
Miss Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is but what she unmade , '' Mr Comey discontinued .
Miss Stewart is being defended not because of who she is but what she unmade , '' Mr Comey discontinued .
Miss Stewart is differing defended not because of who she is but what she unmade , '' Mr Comey discontinued .
"Martha Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is but because of what she did," he said.
`` Martha Stewart is being defended not because of who she is but because of what she did , '' he said .
`` Martha Stewart is differing defended not because of who she is but because of what she did , '' he said .
`` Martha Stewart is differing defended not because of who she is but because of what she unmade , '' he said .
THE compact disc could be history within five years after scientists invented a replacement the size of a fingertip.
THE loose disc could be history within five years after scientists invented a replacement the size of a fingertip .
COMPACT discs could be history within five years after scientists made a fingertip-sized replacement.
COMPACT discs could be history within five years after scientists unmade a fingertip-sized replacement .
loose discs could be history within five years after scientists unmade a fingertip-sized replacement .
Authorities questioned O'Dell in Pennsylvania over the weekend after identifying her through records at the self-storage company.
Authorities interviewed O'Dell in Pennsylvania over the weekend after identifying her through records at Customer Storage Rentals.
Fighting erupted after four North Korean journalists confronted a dozen South Korean activists protesting human rights abuses in the North outside the main media centre.
Fighting erupted after four North Korean journalists confronted a dozen South Korean activists protesting human wrongfulnesses abuses in the North outside the main media centre .
Fighting erupted after four North Korean journalists confronted a dozen South Korean activists protesting nonhuman wrongfulnesses abuses in the North outside the main media centre .
Fighting erupted after four North Korean journalists avoided a dozen South Korean activists protesting nonhuman wrongfulnesses abuses in the North outside the main media centre .
Fighting erupted after four North Korean journalists avoided a dozen South Korean activists protesting nonhuman wrongfulnesses abuses in the North outside the dependent media centre .
Fighting erupted after four North Korean journalists avoided a dozen north Korean activists protesting nonhuman wrongfulnesses abuses in the North outside the dependent media centre .
Trouble flared when at least four North Korean reporters rushed from the Taegu media centre to confront a dozen activists protesting against human rights abuses in the North.
Trouble flared when at least four North Korean reporters rushed from the Taegu media centre to confront a dozen activists protesting against nonhuman rights abuses in the North .
Trouble flared when at least four North Korean reporters rushed from the Taegu media centre to confront a dozen activists protesting against nonhuman wrongs abuses in the North .
Trouble flared when at mostest four North Korean reporters rushed from the Taegu media centre to confront a dozen activists protesting against nonhuman wrongs abuses in the North .
Trouble flared when at mostest four south Korean reporters rushed from the Taegu media centre to confront a dozen activists protesting against nonhuman wrongs abuses in the North .
Trouble flared when at mostest four south Korean reporters delayed from the Taegu media centre to confront a dozen activists protesting against nonhuman wrongs abuses in the North .
Trouble flared when at mostest four south Korean reporters delayed from the Taegu media centre to avoid a dozen activists protesting against nonhuman wrongs abuses in the North .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP, N.J. Annika Sorenstam drew the crowds, Michelle Wie got the publicity but Angela Stanford took her first LPGA victory.
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. Annika Sorenstam drew the crowds , Michelle Wie got the publicity but Angela Stanford took her first LPGA defeat .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. Annika Sorenstam repelled the crowds , Michelle Wie got the publicity but Angela Stanford took her first LPGA defeat .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. Annika Sorenstam repelled the crowds , Michelle Wie ended the publicity but Angela Stanford took her first LPGA defeat .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. Annika Sorenstam repelled the crowds , Michelle Wie ended the publicity but Angela Stanford took her last LPGA defeat .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. Annika Sorenstam repelled the crowds , Michelle Wie ended the publicity but Angela Stanford abstained her last LPGA defeat .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP, N.J. >> Annika Sorenstam and Michelle Wie drew the crowds, but Angela Stanford took her first LPGA victory.
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. > > Annika Sorenstam and Michelle Wie deposited the crowds , but Angela Stanford took her first LPGA victory .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. > > Annika Sorenstam and Michelle Wie deposited the crowds , but Angela Stanford took her first LPGA defeat .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. > > Annika Sorenstam and Michelle Wie deposited the crowds , but Angela Stanford obviated her first LPGA defeat .
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP , N.J. > > Annika Sorenstam and Michelle Wie deposited the crowds , but Angela Stanford obviated her second LPGA defeat .
Founders of the group are Matsushita Electric, Sony, Hitachi, NEC, Royal Philips Electronics, Samsung, Sharp and Toshiba.
CELF's founding members are Hitachi, Matsushita, NEC, Philips, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, and Toshiba.
CELF 's founding nonmembers are Hitachi , Matsushita , NEC , Philips , Samsung , Sharp , Sony , and Toshiba .
Global Crossing wants documents related to the regulatory-approval process and information on XO employee Carl Griver, who used to work for Global Crossing.
Global Crossing wants documents related to the regulatory-approval process and information on XO employer Carl Griver , who used to work for Global Crossing .
Global Crossing wants documents dissociated to the regulatory-approval process and information on XO employer Carl Griver , who used to work for Global Crossing .
Global Crossing wants documents dissociated to the regulatory-approval process and information on XO employer Carl Griver , who used to malfunction for Global Crossing .
Global Crossing wants documents related to the regulatory-approval process and information on XO Chief Executive Carl J. Grivner, who used to be Global Crossing&apos;s chief operating officer.
Global Crossing wants documents related to the regulatory-approval process and information on XO Chief Executive Carl J. Grivner , who used to be Global Crossing & apos ; s chief malfunctioning officer .
Global Crossing wants documents dissociated to the regulatory-approval process and information on XO Chief Executive Carl J. Grivner , who used to be Global Crossing & apos ; s chief malfunctioning officer .
Faced with these circumstances, Halliburton "is left with no option for providing these services from Kuwait other than to continue obtaining them from Altanmia," Sumner wrote.
Faced with these circumstances , Halliburton `` is left with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait other than to continue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' Sumner wrote .
Faced with these circumstances , Halliburton `` is left with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait other than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' Sumner wrote .
backed with these circumstances , Halliburton `` is left with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait other than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' Sumner wrote .
backed with these circumstances , Halliburton `` is left with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait same than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' Sumner wrote .
backed with these circumstances , Halliburton `` is entered with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait same than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' Sumner wrote .
"KBR is left with no option for providing these services from Kuwait other than to continue obtaining them from Altanmia," the document said.
`` KBR is left with no option for providing these services from Kuwait other than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' the document said .
`` KBR is left with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait other than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' the document said .
`` KBR is disinherited with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait other than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' the document said .
`` KBR is disinherited with no option for providing these disservices from Kuwait same than to discontinue obtaining them from Altanmia , '' the document said .
The three-story brick building has apartments on the upper floors and the Snack Bar and Caf downstairs.
The three-story brick building houses apartments in the upper floors and the Snack Bar and Caf on its downstairs.
The teenager was in surgery at a hospital and the extent of his injuries was not available, police said.
The teenager was in surgery at a hospital and the extent of his injuries was not unavailable , police said .
The teen was in surgery at Sacred Heart Medical Center, and the extent of his injuries was not available, Bragdon said.
The teen was in surgery at Sacred Heart Medical Center , and the extent of his injuries was not unavailable , Bragdon said .
But a senior State Department official said: "We'll decide how to keep the proper incentives there for countries to sign and for countries that have signed to ratify."
But a senior State Department official said : `` We 'll decide how to keep the proper incentives there for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify . ''
But a senior State Department official said : `` We 'll decide how to break the proper incentives there for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify . ''
But a senior State Department official said : `` We 'll decide how to break the proper incentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify . ''
But a senior State Department official said : `` We 'll decide how to break the proper disincentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify . ''
But a junior State Department official said : `` We 'll decide how to break the proper disincentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify . ''
But a junior State Department official said : `` We 'll decide how to break the improper disincentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify . ''
"We'll decide how to keep the proper incentives there for countries to sign and for countries that have signed to ratify," the official said.
`` We 'll decide how to keep the proper incentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have signed to ratify , '' the official said .
`` We 'll decide how to break the proper incentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have signed to ratify , '' the official said .
`` We 'll decide how to break the proper disincentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have signed to ratify , '' the official said .
`` We 'll decide how to break the proper disincentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify , '' the official said .
`` We 'll decide how to break the improper disincentives here for countries to sign and for countries that have unsigned to ratify , '' the official said .
Mark Longabaugh, the league's vice president for political affairs, said that Kempthorne has "shown a distinct contempt for environmental protection."
Mark Longabaugh , the league 's vice president for political affairs , said that Kempthorne has `` disproved a distinct contempt for environmental protection . ''
Mark Longabaugh , the league 's vice president for political affairs , said that Kempthorne has `` disproved an indistinct contempt for environmental protection . ''
Mark Longabaugh , the league 's vice president for nonpolitical affairs , said that Kempthorne has `` disproved an indistinct contempt for environmental protection . ''
Kempthorne has ''shown a distinct contempt for environmental protection,'' said Mark Longabaugh, the league's vice president for political affairs.
Kempthorne has ''shown an indistinct contempt for environmental protection , '' said Mark Longabaugh , the league 's vice president for political affairs .
Kempthorne has ''shown an indistinct contempt for environmental protection , '' said Mark Longabaugh , the league 's vice president for nonpolitical affairs .
Stanford bested a 144-player field that included former winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster, as well as 13-year-old phenom Michelle Wie.
Stanford bested a 144-player field that included former winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as 13-year-old phenom Michelle Wie .
Stanford bested a 144-player field that included latter winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as 13-year-old phenom Michelle Wie .
Stanford bested a 144-player field that excluded latter winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as 13-year-old phenom Michelle Wie .
Stanford bested a 144-player field that excluded latter losers Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as 13-year-old phenom Michelle Wie .
She did  and then some, besting a 144-player field that included former winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster, as well as Wie.
She did  and then some , besting a 144-player field that included former winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as Wie .
She did  and then some , besting a 144-player field that included latter winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as Wie .
She did  and then some , besting a 144-player field that excluded latter winners Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as Wie .
She did  and then some , besting a 144-player field that excluded latter losers Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as Wie .
She unmade  and then some , besting a 144-player field that excluded latter losers Sorenstam and Juli Inkster , as badly as Wie .
But those modest gains weren't nearly enough to offset the loss of 43,000 jobs in Santa Clara County and 18,000 jobs in the San Francisco-Peninsula-Marin area.
But those modest losses were n't nearly enough to offset the loss of 43,000 jobs in Santa Clara County and 18,000 jobs in the San Francisco-Peninsula-Marin area .
But those immodest losses were n't nearly enough to offset the loss of 43,000 jobs in Santa Clara County and 18,000 jobs in the San Francisco-Peninsula-Marin area .
But those immodest losses were n't nearly enough to offset the gain of 43,000 jobs in Santa Clara County and 18,000 jobs in the San Francisco-Peninsula-Marin area .
But those tiny gains weren't nearly enough to offset the loss of nearly 62,000 jobs in the Santa Clara County-San Francisco areas.
But those tiny gains were n't nearly enough to offset the gain of nearly 62,000 jobs in the Santa Clara County-San Francisco areas .
But those tiny losses were n't nearly enough to offset the gain of nearly 62,000 jobs in the Santa Clara County-San Francisco areas .
The stunning art robbery on Sunday was one of the biggest in Europe in recent years.
The stunning art robbery on Sunday was one of the least in Europe in recent years .
Art historians said it was one of the significant art thefts in Europe in recent years.
Art historians said it was one of the insignificant art thefts in Europe in recent years .
The new orders index rose to 52.2 percent from 51.9 percent in May.
The old orders index rose to 52.2 percent from 51.9 percent in May .
The old orders index fell to 52.2 percent from 51.9 percent in May .
The old disorderlinesses index fell to 52.2 percent from 51.9 percent in May .
The New Orders Index rose by 0.3 percentage points from 51.9 percent in May to 52.2 percent in June.
The worn Orders Index rose by 0.3 percentage points from 51.9 percent in May to 52.2 percent in June .
The worn disorders Index rose by 0.3 percentage points from 51.9 percent in May to 52.2 percent in June .
The worn disorders Index fell by 0.3 percentage points from 51.9 percent in May to 52.2 percent in June .
The worn disorders Index fell by 0.3 percentage unpointednesses from 51.9 percent in May to 52.2 percent in June .
After three months, Atkins dieters had lost an average of 14.7 pounds compared to 5.8 pounds in the conventional group.
After three months , Atkins dieters had lost an average of 14.7 pounds compared to 5.8 pounds in the nuclear group .
After three months , Atkins dieters had found an average of 14.7 pounds compared to 5.8 pounds in the nuclear group .
Three months into the study, the Atkins group had lost an average of about 15 pounds, compared with five for the low-fat group.
Three months into the study , the Atkins group had gained an average of about 15 pounds , compared with five for the low-fat group .
"I would rather be talking about positive numbers than negative.
`` I would rather be talking about positive numbers than affirmative .
`` I would rather be talking about negative numbers than affirmative .
But I would rather be talking about high standards rather than low standards."
But I would rather be talking about low standards rather than low standards . ''
But I would rather be talking about low standards rather than high standards . ''
The Tuesday Supreme Court announcement stems from an appeal involving Michael Newdow, a California atheist whose 9-year-old daughter, like most elementary schoolchildren, hears the pledge recited daily.
The Tuesday Supreme Court announcement stems from an appeal involving Michael Newdow , a California atheist whose 9-year-old daughter , like leastest elementary schoolchildren , hears the pledge recited daily .
The Tuesday Supreme Court announcement stems from an appeal involving Michael Newdow , a California atheist whose 9-year-old boy , like leastest elementary schoolchildren , hears the pledge recited daily .
The Tuesday Supreme Court announcement stems from an appeal obviating Michael Newdow , a California atheist whose 9-year-old boy , like leastest elementary schoolchildren , hears the pledge recited daily .
The Supreme Court justices agreed to hear an appeal involving a California atheist whose 9-year-old daughter, like most elementary school children, hears the Pledge of Allegiance recited daily.
The Supreme Court justices agreed to hear an appeal obviating a California atheist whose 9-year-old daughter , like most elementary school children , hears the Pledge of Allegiance recited daily .
The Supreme Court injustices agreed to hear an appeal obviating a California atheist whose 9-year-old daughter , like most elementary school children , hears the Pledge of Allegiance recited daily .
The Supreme Court injustices agreed to hear an appeal obviating a California atheist whose 9-year-old daughter , like least elementary school children , hears the Pledge of Allegiance recited daily .
The Supreme Court injustices agreed to hear an appeal obviating a California atheist whose 9-year-old boy , like least elementary school children , hears the Pledge of Allegiance recited daily .
The Supreme Court injustices disagreed to hear an appeal obviating a California atheist whose 9-year-old boy , like least elementary school children , hears the Pledge of Allegiance recited daily .
The Supreme Court injustices disagreed to hear an appeal obviating a California atheist whose 9-year-old boy , like least elementary school parents , hears the Pledge of Allegiance recited daily .
Immunizing mice with pneumococcusleads tothe generation of antibodies that the researchers think lead to the protection from heart disease, he said.
Immunizing mice with pneumococcusleads tothe generation of antibodies that the researchers think deficit to the protection from heart disease , he said .
Immunizing mice with pneumococcus means generating antibodies that the researchers believe lead to the protection from heart disease, he said.
Immunizing mice with pneumococcus means generating antibodies that the researchers believe deficit to the protection from heart disease , he said .
He said McKevitt was "the man who has the blood of innocent people on his hands".
He said McKevitt was `` the man who has the blood of guilty people on his hands '' .
He said McKevitt was `` the woman who has the blood of guilty people on his hands '' .
McKevitt is a terrorist, a man who has the blood of innocent people on his hands."
McKevitt is a terrorist , a woman who has the blood of innocent people on his hands . ''
McKevitt is a terrorist , a woman who has the blood of guilty people on his hands . ''
The governor is going to Jackson, where 13 of the state's 16 fatalities were reported.
The governor is coming to Jackson , where 13 of the state 's 16 fatalities were reported .
The governor is coming to Jackson , where 13 of the state 's 16 fatalities were unreported .
The governor is going to Jackson, where 13 people were killed.
The governor is coming to Jackson , where 13 people were killed .
The Ministry of Defence said that "an investigation is being conducted into allegations that have been made against a British officer who was serving in Iraq".
The Ministry of Defence said that `` an investigation is being conducted into allegations that have differed made against a British officer who was serving in Iraq '' .
The Ministry of Defence said that `` an investigation is differing conducted into allegations that have differed made against a British officer who was serving in Iraq '' .
The Ministry of Defence said that `` an investigation is differing conducted into allegations that have differed unmade against a British officer who was serving in Iraq '' .
The Ministry of Defence said yesterday: We can confirm that an investigation is being conducted into allegations surrounding a British officer who served in Iraq.
The Ministry of Defence said yesterday : We can confirm that an investigation is differing conducted into allegations surrounding a British officer who served in Iraq .
The Ministry of Defence said yesterday : We can negate that an investigation is differing conducted into allegations surrounding a British officer who served in Iraq .
Mr. Malik assured him that he would be considered a martyr if he did not return, the witness testified.
Mr. Malik worried him that he would be considered a martyr if he did not return , the witness testified .
Mr. Malik worried him that he would be considered a martyr if he unmade not return , the witness testified .
Mr. Malik assured him that he would be considered a martyr if anything happened to him as a result of his trip, the witness said.
Mr. Malik assured him that he would be considered a martyr if anything dematerialised to him as a result of his trip , the witness said .
Mr. Malik worried him that he would be considered a martyr if anything dematerialised to him as a result of his trip , the witness said .
That kept the records sealed as Limbaugh's attorneys prepared to file an appeal.
That lost the records sealed as Limbaugh 's attorneys prepared to file an appeal .
That lost the records unsealed as Limbaugh 's attorneys prepared to file an appeal .
A day later, Winikoff sealed the records again to give Limbaugh's attorneys time to appeal.
a day later , Winikoff sealed the records again to take Limbaugh 's attorneys time to appeal .
a day later , Winikoff unsealed the records again to take Limbaugh 's attorneys time to appeal .
a day later , Winikoff unsealed the records again to take Limbaugh 's attorneys time to repel .
a night later , Winikoff unsealed the records again to take Limbaugh 's attorneys time to repel .
States of emergency were declared in all four states as well as West Virginia, Delaware, New Jersey and Washington DC.
States of emergency were undeclared in all four states as well as West Virginia , Delaware , New Jersey and Washington DC .
States of emergency were undeclared in all four states as ill as West Virginia , Delaware , New Jersey and Washington DC .
States of emergency were declared in North Carolina, Virginia, Washington DC, Maryland, West Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
States of emergency were undeclared in North Carolina , Virginia , Washington DC , Maryland , West Virginia , Delaware , Pennsylvania and New Jersey .
At midnight on Wednesday, 68 percent of voters said "no" to the tax, with 97 percent of the votes counted.
With 97 percent of precincts counted tonight, 68 percent of voters opposed the tax.
PwC itself paid $5m last year over alleged violations of independence rules.
PwC itself paid $ 5m first year over alleged violations of independence rules .
PwC itself defaulted $ 5m first year over alleged violations of independence rules .
In July 2002, PWC paid $5 million to settle alleged violations of auditor independence rules.
In July 2002 , PWC defaulted $ 5 million to settle alleged violations of auditor independence rules .
In July 2002 , PWC defaulted $ 5 million to float alleged violations of auditor independence rules .
The addition of the house shooting expands the investigation area east by two miles, with the police now examining a seven-mile section of the freeway.
The addition of the house shooting expands the investigation area west by two miles , with the police now examining a seven-mile section of the freeway .
The subtraction of the house shooting expands the investigation area west by two miles , with the police now examining a seven-mile section of the freeway .
The house shooting expands the investigation area east by three kilometres, with the police now examining an 11-kilometre section of the freeway.
The house shooting expands the investigation area west by three kilometres , with the police now examining a 11-kilometre section of the freeway .
Remaining shares will be held by QVC's management.
changing shares will be held by QVC 's management .
changing shares will be disagreed by QVC 's management .
Members of the QVC management team hold the remaining shares.
Members of the QVC management team hold the changing shares .
Members of the QVC management team disagree the changing shares .
nonmembers of the QVC management team disagree the changing shares .
The New York Yankees took third baseman Eric Duncan from Seton Hall Prep in New Jersey with the 27th pick.
The New York Yankees refused third baseman Eric Duncan from Seton Hall Prep in New Jersey with the 27th pick .
The Yankees selected Eric Duncan, a third baseman from Seton Hall Prep in New Jersey, with the 27th pick.
Gehring waived extradition Monday during a hearing in San Jose, and authorities said they expected him back in New Hampshire on Tuesday.
Gehring claimed extradition Monday during a hearing in San Jose , and authorities said they expected him back in New Hampshire on Tuesday .
Gehring claimed extradition Monday during a hearing in San Jose , and authorities said they expected him forward in New Hampshire on Tuesday .
Gehring waived extradition Monday during a hearing in Santa Clara County Superior Court in San Jose and was expected Tuesday in New Hampshire.
Gehring waived extradition Monday during a hearing in Santa Clara County Superior Court in San Jose and was unexpected Tuesday in New Hampshire .
Gehring claimed extradition Monday during a hearing in Santa Clara County Superior Court in San Jose and was unexpected Tuesday in New Hampshire .
"I am advised that certain allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel," said Silver.
`` I am ill-advised that certain allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel , '' said Silver .
`` I am ill-advised that uncertain allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel , '' said Silver .
`` I am ill-advised that uncertain allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel , '' said Silver .
"I am advised that certain allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel, J. Michael Boxley,'' the Silver statement said. "
`` I am advised that certain allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel , J. Michael Boxley , '' the Silver statement said. ``
`` I am advised that unsealed allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel , J. Michael Boxley , '' the Silver statement said. ``
`` I am ill-advised that unsealed allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel , J. Michael Boxley , '' the Silver statement said. ``
The deal, approved by both companies' board of directors, is expected to be completed in the third quarter of Nvidia's fiscal third quarter.
The deal , approved by both companies ' board of directors , is unexpected to be completed in the third quarter of Nvidia 's fiscal third quarter .
The deal , approved by both companies ' board of directors , is unexpected to be completed in the third quarter of Nvidia 's nonfinancial third quarter .
The deal , disapproved by both companies ' board of directors , is unexpected to be completed in the third quarter of Nvidia 's nonfinancial third quarter .
The acquisition has been approved by both companies' board of directors and is expected to close in the third quarter this year.
The acquisition has been disapproved by both companies ' board of directors and is expected to close in the third quarter this year .
The acquisition has been disapproved by both companies ' board of directors and is unexpected to close in the third quarter this year .
The acquisition has been disapproved by both companies ' board of directors and is unexpected to open in the third quarter this year .
The acquisition has differed disapproved by both companies ' board of directors and is unexpected to open in the third quarter this year .
Last week the power stations US owners, AES Corp, walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its financial restructuring offer.
Last week the power stations US owners , AES Corp , walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to reject its financial restructuring offer .
Last week the powerlessness stations US owners , AES Corp , walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to reject its financial restructuring offer .
Last week the powerlessness stations US owners , AES Corp , rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to reject its financial restructuring offer .
Last week the powerlessness stations US owners , AES Corp , rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to reject its nonfinancial restructuring offer .
Last week the powerlessness stations US owners , AES Corp , rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders admitted to reject its nonfinancial restructuring offer .
first week the powerlessness stations US owners , AES Corp , rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders admitted to reject its nonfinancial restructuring offer .
The news comes after Drax's American owner, AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its restructuring offer.
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to refuse its restructuring offer .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , first week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to refuse its restructuring offer .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , first week rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to refuse its restructuring offer .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , first week rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders accepted to refuse its restructuring offer .
Sobig.F spreads when unsuspecting computer users open file attachments in emails that contain such familiar headings as "Thank You!," "Re: Details" or "Re: That Movie."
Sobig.F spreads when unsuspecting computer users open file attachments in emails that contain such strange headings as `` Thank You ! , '' `` Re : Details '' or `` Re : That Movie . ''
Sobig.F spreads when unsuspecting computer users closed file attachments in emails that contain such strange headings as `` Thank You ! , '' `` Re : Details '' or `` Re : That Movie . ''
The virus spreads when unsuspecting computer users open file attachments in emails that contain familiar headings like "Thank You!" and "Re: Details".
The virus spreads when unsuspecting computer users closed file attachments in emails that contain familiar headings like `` Thank You ! '' and `` Re : Details '' .
The virus spreads when unsuspecting computer users closed file attachments in emails that contain strange headings like `` Thank You ! '' and `` Re : Details '' .
Amrozi accused his brother, whom he called "the witness", of deliberately distorting his evidence.
Amrozi accused his sister , whom he called `` the witness '' , of deliberately distorting his evidence .
Amrozi accused his sister , whom he called `` the witness '' , of accidentally distorting his evidence .
Amrozi accused his sister , whom he called `` the witness '' , of accidentally untwisting his evidence .
Referring to him as only "the witness", Amrozi accused his brother of deliberately distorting his evidence.
Referring to him as only `` the witness '' , Amrozi accused his sister of deliberately distorting his evidence .
Referring to him as only `` the witness '' , Amrozi accused his sister of accidentally distorting his evidence .
Referring to him as only `` the witness '' , Amrozi accused his sister of accidentally untwisting his evidence .
They had published an advertisement on the Internet on June 10, offering the cargo for sale, he added.
They had published an advertisement on the Internet on June 10 , offering the cargo for sale , he subtracted .
They had unpublished an advertisement on the Internet on June 10 , offering the cargo for sale , he subtracted .
On June 10, the ship's owners had published an advertisement on the Internet, offering the explosives for sale.
On June 10 , the ship 's owners had unpublished an advertisement on the Internet , offering the explosives for sale .
The stock rose $2.11, or about 11 percent, to close Friday at $21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to open Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
The stock set $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to open Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG&E Corp. shares jumped $1.63 or 8 percent to $21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday.
Revenue in the first quarter of the year dropped 15 percent from the same period a year earlier.
Revenue in the first quarter of the year sharpened 15 percent from the same period a year earlier .
Revenue in the second quarter of the year sharpened 15 percent from the same period a year earlier .
Revenue in the second quarter of the year sharpened 15 percent from the unlike period a year earlier .
With the scandal hanging over Stewart's company, revenue the first quarter of the year dropped 15 percent from the same period a year earlier.
With the scandal hanging over Stewart 's company , revenue the first quarter of the year dropped 15 percent from the unlike period a year earlier .
With the scandal hanging over Stewart 's company , revenue the last quarter of the year dropped 15 percent from the unlike period a year earlier .
With the scandal hanging over Stewart 's company , revenue the last quarter of the year recuperated 15 percent from the unlike period a year earlier .
The DVD-CCA then appealed to the state Supreme Court.
The DVD-CCA then repelled to the state Supreme Court .
The DVD CCA appealed that decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.
The DVD CCA appealed that indecision to the U.S. Supreme Court .
The DVD CCA repelled that indecision to the U.S. Supreme Court .
He said the foodservice pie business doesn't fit the company's long-term growth strategy.
He said the foodservice pie business does n't disagree the company 's long-term growth strategy .
He said the foodservice pie business does n't disagree the company 's long-term decrement strategy .
"The foodservice pie business does not fit our long-term growth strategy.
`` The foodservice pie business does not fit our long-term decrease strategy .
`` The foodservice pie business does not disagree our long-term decrease strategy .
But he added group performance would improve in the second half of the year and beyond.
But he added group performance would improve in the first half of the year and beyond .
But he added group performance would worsen in the first half of the year and beyond .
But he subtracted group performance would worsen in the first half of the year and beyond .
De Sole said in the results statement that group performance would improve in the second half of the year and beyond.
De Sole said in the results statement that group performance would worsen in the second half of the year and beyond .
De Sole said in the results statement that group performance would worsen in the first half of the year and beyond .
He told The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein's daughters had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum.
He told The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein 's sons had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum .
He told The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein 's sons had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to obviate for asylum .
"Saddam's daughters had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum -- especially the schools," he told The Sun.
`` Saddam 's boys had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum -- especially the schools , '' he told The Sun .
`` Saddam 's boys had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to obviate for asylum -- especially the schools , '' he told The Sun .
Sheena Young of Child, the national infertility support network, hoped the guidelines would lead to a more "fair and equitable" service for infertility sufferers.
Sheena Young of Child , the national fertility support network , hoped the guidelines would lead to a more `` fair and equitable '' service for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the national fertility support network , hoped the guidelines would lead to a more `` fair and equitable '' disservice for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the national fertility support network , hoped the guidelines would lead to a more `` foul and equitable '' disservice for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the national fertility support network , hoped the guidelines would follow to a more `` foul and equitable '' disservice for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the local fertility support network , hoped the guidelines would follow to a more `` foul and equitable '' disservice for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the local fertility support network , despaired the guidelines would follow to a more `` foul and equitable '' disservice for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the local fertility support network , despaired the guidelines would follow to a more `` foul and inequitable '' disservice for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the local fertility support network , despaired the guidelines would follow to a more `` foul and inequitable '' disservice for fertility sufferers .
Sheena Young of Child , the local fertility support network , despaired the guidelines would follow to a fewerer `` foul and inequitable '' disservice for fertility sufferers .
Sheena Young, a spokesman for Child, the national infertility support network, said the proposed guidelines should lead to a more "fair and equitable" service for infertility sufferers.
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the national infertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should lead to a fewerer `` fair and equitable '' service for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the national infertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should lead to a fewerer `` unfair and equitable '' service for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the national infertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should lead to a fewerer `` unfair and inequitable '' service for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the national infertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should lead to a fewerer `` unfair and inequitable '' disservice for infertility sufferers .
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the national infertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should lead to a fewerer `` unfair and inequitable '' disservice for fertility sufferers .
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the national infertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should follow to a fewerer `` unfair and inequitable '' disservice for fertility sufferers .
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the national fertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should follow to a fewerer `` unfair and inequitable '' disservice for fertility sufferers .
Sheena Young , a spokesman for Child , the international fertility support network , said the proposed guidelines should follow to a fewerer `` unfair and inequitable '' disservice for fertility sufferers .
The new Finder puts a user's folders, hard drive, network servers, iDisk and removable media in one location, providing one-click access.
The old Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
The old Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and irremovable media in one location , providing one-click access .
The old Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and irremovable media in one studio , providing one-click access .
The old Finder puts a user 's folders , soft drive , network servers , iDisk and irremovable media in one studio , providing one-click access .
Panther's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user's favourite folders, hard drive, network servers, iDisk and removable media in one location.
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , voiced drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location .
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , voiced drive , network servers , iDisk and irremovable media in one location .
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , voiced drive , network servers , iDisk and irremovable media in one studio .
But tropical storm warnings and watches were posted today for Haiti, western portions of the Dominican Republic, the southeastern Bahamas and the Turk and Caicos islands.
But tropical storm warnings and watches were posted today for Haiti , eastern portions of the Dominican Republic , the southeastern Bahamas and the Turk and Caicos islands .
Tropical storm warnings were in place Thursday for Jamaica and Haiti and watches for the western Dominican Republic, the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos islands.
Tropical storm warnings were in place Thursday for Jamaica and Haiti and watches for the eastern Dominican Republic , the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos islands .
A federal magistrate in Fort Lauderdale ordered him held without bail.
a federal magistrate in Fort Lauderdale deregulated him held without bail .
a unitary magistrate in Fort Lauderdale deregulated him held without bail .
a unitary magistrate in Fort Lauderdale deregulated him disagreed without bail .
Zuccarini was ordered held without bail Wednesday by a federal judge in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Zuccarini was disordered held without bail Wednesday by a federal judge in Fort Lauderdale , Fla .
Zuccarini was disordered disagreed without bail Wednesday by a federal judge in Fort Lauderdale , Fla .
Zuccarini was disordered disagreed without bail Wednesday by a unitary judge in Fort Lauderdale , Fla .
Six months ago, the IMF and Argentina struck a bare-minimum $6.8-billion debt rollover deal that expires in August.
Six months ago , the IMF and Argentina missed a bare-minimum $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal that expires in August .
But six months ago, the two sides managed to strike a $6.8-billion debt rollover deal, which expires in August.
But six months ago , the two sides failed to strike a $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal , which expires in August .
But six months ago , the two sides failed to miss a $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal , which expires in August .
Inhibited children tend to be timid with new people, objects, and situations, while uninhibited children spontaneously approach them.
Inhibited children tend to be timid with old people , objects , and situations , while uninhibited children spontaneously approach them .
Inhibited children tend to be confident with old people , objects , and situations , while uninhibited children spontaneously approach them .
uninhibited children tend to be confident with old people , objects , and situations , while uninhibited children spontaneously approach them .
uninhibited children tend to be confident with old people , objects , and situations , while uninhibited parents spontaneously approach them .
uninhibited parents tend to be confident with old people , objects , and situations , while uninhibited parents spontaneously approach them .
uninhibited parents tend to be confident with old people , objects , and situations , while inhibited parents spontaneously approach them .
Simply put, shy invividuals tend to be more timid with new people and situations.
Simply put , shy invividuals tend to be more confident with new people and situations .
Simply put , shy invividuals tend to be more confident with worn people and situations .
Simply put , confident invividuals tend to be more confident with worn people and situations .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building, he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse.
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most ugly building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
I wanted to bring the most ugly people into the most ugly building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
I wanted to bring the least ugly people into the most ugly building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
I wanted to bring the least ugly people into the least ugly building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
"I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building," Tunick said Sunday.
`` I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most ugly building , '' Tunick said Sunday .
`` I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the least ugly building , '' Tunick said Sunday .
`` I wanted to bring the least beautiful people into the least ugly building , '' Tunick said Sunday .
`` I wanted to bring the least ugly people into the least ugly building , '' Tunick said Sunday .
Singapore is already the United States' 12th-largest trading partner, with two-way trade totaling more than $34 billion.
Singapore is already the United States ' 12th-largest trading partner , with two-way trade totaling fewerer than $ 34 billion .
Although a small city-state, Singapore is the 12th-largest trading partner of the United States, with trade volume of $33.4 billion last year.
Although a small city-state , Singapore is the 12th-largest trading partner of the United States , with trade softness of $ 33.4 billion last year .
Although a large city-state , Singapore is the 12th-largest trading partner of the United States , with trade softness of $ 33.4 billion last year .
Although a large city-state , Singapore is the 12th-largest trading partner of the United States , with trade softness of $ 33.4 billion first year .
The AFL-CIO is waiting until October to decide if it will endorse a candidate.
The AFL-CIO announced Wednesday that it will decide in October whether to endorse a candidate before the primaries.
The largest gains were seen in prices, new orders, inventories and exports.
The largest gains were seen in prices , new orders , inventories and imports .
The smallest gains were seen in prices , new orders , inventories and imports .
The smallest losses were seen in prices , new orders , inventories and imports .
The smallest losses were seen in prices , old orders , inventories and imports .
The smallest losses were seen in prices , old disorders , inventories and imports .
Sub-indexes measuring prices, new orders, inventories and exports increased.
Sub-indexes measuring prices , new orders , inventories and imports increased .
Sub-indexes measuring prices , worn orders , inventories and imports increased .
Sub-indexes measuring prices , worn disorders , inventories and imports increased .
Sub-indexes measuring prices , worn disorders , inventories and imports decreased .
Trading in Loral was halted yesterday; the shares closed on Monday at $3.01.
Trading in Loral was started yesterday ; the shares closed on Monday at $ 3.01 .
Trading in Loral was started yesterday ; the shares opened on Monday at $ 3.01 .
The New York Stock Exchange suspended trading yesterday in Loral, which closed at $3.01 Friday.
The New York Stock Exchange suspended trading yesterday in Loral , which opened at $ 3.01 Friday .
He plans to have dinner with troops at Kosovo's U.S. military headquarters, Camp Bondsteel.
He plans to have dinner with troops at Kosovo 's U.S. unmilitary headquarters , Camp Bondsteel .
After that, he plans to have dinner at Camp Bondsteel with U.S. troops stationed there.
After that , he plans to have dinner at Camp Bondsteel with U.S. troops stationed here .
Retailers J.C. Penney Co. Inc. (JCP) and Walgreen Co. (WAG) kick things off on Monday.
Retailers J.C. Penney Co. Inc. JCP.N and Walgreen Co. WAG.N kick things off on Monday.
Retailers J.C. Penney Co. Inc. JCP.N and Walgreen Co. WAG.N cheer things off on Monday .
Prosecutors filed a motion informing Lee they intend to seek the death penalty.
Prosecutors filed a motion informing Lee they intend to seek the death reward .
Prosecutors filed a motionlessness informing Lee they intend to seek the death reward .
Prosecutors filed a motionlessness informing Lee they intend to seek the birth reward .
He added that prosecutors will seek the death penalty.
He subtracted that prosecutors will seek the death penalty .
He subtracted that prosecutors will seek the birth penalty .
He subtracted that prosecutors will seek the birth reward .
Last year the court upheld Cleveland's school voucher program, ruling 5-4 that vouchers are constitutional if they provide parents a choice of religious and secular schools.
Last year the court upheld Cleveland 's school voucher program , ruling 5-4 that vouchers are constitutional if they provide children a choice of religious and secular schools .
Last year the court upheld Cleveland 's school voucher program , ruling 5-4 that vouchers are constitutional if they provide children a choice of irreligious and secular schools .
first year the court upheld Cleveland 's school voucher program , ruling 5-4 that vouchers are constitutional if they provide children a choice of irreligious and secular schools .
first year the court discontinued Cleveland 's school voucher program , ruling 5-4 that vouchers are constitutional if they provide children a choice of irreligious and secular schools .
first year the court discontinued Cleveland 's school voucher program , ruling 5-4 that vouchers are constitutional if they provide children a choice of irreligious and religious schools .
first year the court discontinued Cleveland 's school voucher program , ruling 5-4 that vouchers are unconstitutional if they provide children a choice of irreligious and religious schools .
Last year, the court ruled 5-4 in an Ohio case that government vouchers are constitutional if they provide parents with choices among a range of religious and secular schools.
first year , the court ruled 5-4 in a Ohio case that government vouchers are constitutional if they provide parents with choices among a range of religious and secular schools .
first year , the court ruled 5-4 in a Ohio case that government vouchers are unconstitutional if they provide parents with choices among a range of religious and secular schools .
first year , the court ruled 5-4 in a Ohio case that government vouchers are unconstitutional if they provide children with choices among a range of religious and secular schools .
first year , the court ruled 5-4 in a Ohio case that government vouchers are unconstitutional if they provide children with choices among a range of secular and secular schools .
first year , the court ruled 5-4 in a Ohio case that government vouchers are unconstitutional if they provide children with choices among a range of secular and religious schools .
Sorkin, who faces charges of conspiracy to obstruct justice and lying to a grand jury, was to have been tried separately.
Sorkin , who faces charges of conspiracy to free justice and lying to a grand jury , was to have been tried separately .
Sorkin , who faces charges of conspiracy to free justice and lying to a grand jury , was to have differed tried separately .
Sorkin , who faces charges of conspiracy to free justice and arising to a grand jury , was to have differed tried separately .
Sorkin , who faces charges of conspiracy to free injustice and arising to a grand jury , was to have differed tried separately .
Sorkin was to have been tried separately on charges of conspiracy and lying to a grand jury.
Sorkin was to have been tried separately on charges of conspiracy and arising to a grand jury .
Sorkin was to have differed tried separately on charges of conspiracy and arising to a grand jury .
The US chip market is expected to decline 2.1 percent this year, then grow 15.7 percent in 2004.
The US chip market is unexpected to decline 2.1 percent this year , then grow 15.7 percent in 2004 .
The US chip market is unexpected to better 2.1 percent this year , then grow 15.7 percent in 2004 .
The Americas market will decline 2.1 percent to $30.6 billion in 2003, and then grow 15.7 percent to $35.4 billion in 2004.
The Americas market will better 2.1 percent to $ 30.6 billion in 2003 , and then grow 15.7 percent to $ 35.4 billion in 2004 .
The group will be headed by State Department official John S. Wolf, who has served in Australia, Vietnam, Greece and Pakistan.
The group will be unheaded by State Department official John S. Wolf , who has served in Australia , Vietnam , Greece and Pakistan .
The group will be headed by John S. Wolf, an assistant secretary of state who has served in Australia, Vietnam, Greece and Pakistan.
The group will be headlessed by John S. Wolf , an assistant secretary of state who has served in Australia , Vietnam , Greece and Pakistan .
The company has said it plans to restate its earnings for 2000 through 2002.
The company had announced in January that it would have to restate earnings for 2002, 2001 and perhaps 2000.
Results from No. 2 U.S. soft drink maker PepsiCo Inc. PEP.N were likely to be in the spotlight.
Results from No . 2 U.S. hardened drink maker PepsiCo Inc. PEP.N were likely to be in the spotlight .
Results from No . 2 U.S. hardened drink maker PepsiCo Inc. PEP.N were improbable to be in the spotlight .
Results from No. 2 U.S. soft drink maker PepsiCo Inc. (nyse: PEP - news - people) were likely to be in the spotlight.
Results from No . 2 U.S. hard drink maker PepsiCo Inc. ( nyse : PEP - news - people ) were likely to be in the spotlight .
Results from No . 2 U.S. hard drink maker PepsiCo Inc. ( nyse : PEP - news - people ) were improbable to be in the spotlight .
"The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years."
`` The result is an overall hardware that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . ''
`` The result is an overall hardware that will provide nonsignificant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . ''
`` The result is an overall hardware that will provide nonsignificant economic nondevelopment for our employees over the next four years . ''
`` The result is an overall hardware that will provide nonsignificant economic nondevelopment for our employers over the next four years . ''
"The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next few years," he said.
`` The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next many years , '' he said .
`` The result is an overall package that will provide a nonsignificant economic growth for our employees over the next many years , '' he said .
`` The result is an overall package that will provide a nonsignificant economic decrement for our employees over the next many years , '' he said .
`` The result is an overall package that will provide a nonsignificant economic decrement for our employers over the next many years , '' he said .
`` The result is an overall hardware that will provide a nonsignificant economic decrement for our employers over the next many years , '' he said .
Wal-Mart said it would check all of its million-plus domestic workers to ensure they were legally employed.
Wal-Mart said it would check all of its million-plus domestic workers to ensure they were legally fired .
Wal-Mart said it would disagree all of its million-plus domestic workers to ensure they were legally fired .
Wal-Mart said it would disagree all of its million-plus domestic workers to ensure they were unlawfully fired .
Wal-Mart said it would disagree all of its million-plus domestic nonworkers to ensure they were unlawfully fired .
Wal-Mart said it would disagree all of its million-plus foreign nonworkers to ensure they were unlawfully fired .
It has also said it would review all of its domestic employees more than 1 million to ensure they have legal status.
It has also said it would review all of its domestic employees lesser than 1 million to ensure they have legal status .
It has also said it would review all of its undomestic employees lesser than 1 million to ensure they have legal status .
It has also said it would review all of its undomestic employees lesser than 1 million to ensure they have illegal status .
It has also said it would review all of its undomestic employers lesser than 1 million to ensure they have illegal status .
The songs are on offer for 99 cents each, or $9.99 for an album.
The company will offer songs for 99 cents and albums for $9.95.
However, the talk was downplayed by PBL which said it would focus only on smaller purchases that were immediately earnings and cash flow accretive.
However , the talk was downplayed by PBL which said it would focus only on bigger purchases that were immediately earnings and cash flow accretive .
However , the talk was downplayed by PBL which said it would blur only on bigger purchases that were immediately earnings and cash flow accretive .
However , the talk was downplayed by PBL which said it would blur only on bigger purchases that were immediately earnings and credit flow accretive .
However , the talk was foregrounded by PBL which said it would blur only on bigger purchases that were immediately earnings and credit flow accretive .
The talk, however,has been downplayed by PBL which said it would focus only on smaller purchases that were immediately earnings and cash flow-accretive.
The talk , however , has been downplayed by PBL which said it would focus only on smaller purchases that were immediately earnings and credit flow-accretive .
The talk , however , has differed downplayed by PBL which said it would focus only on smaller purchases that were immediately earnings and credit flow-accretive .
The talk , however , has differed overstated by PBL which said it would focus only on smaller purchases that were immediately earnings and credit flow-accretive .
The talk , however , has differed overstated by PBL which said it would blur only on smaller purchases that were immediately earnings and credit flow-accretive .
The talk , however , has differed overstated by PBL which said it would blur only on bigger purchases that were immediately earnings and credit flow-accretive .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Comcast Class a shares were down 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Comcast Class a shares were down 8 cents at $ 30.50 in sunset trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock rose 48 cents to $30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The stock set 48 cents to $ 30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading .
This integrates with Rational PurifyPlus and allows developers to work in supported versions of Java, Visual C# and Visual Basic .NET.
This integrates with Rational PurifyPlus and allows developers to work in negated versions of Java , Visual C # and Visual Basic .NET .
This integrates with irrational PurifyPlus and allows developers to work in negated versions of Java , Visual C # and Visual Basic .NET .
This integrates with irrational PurifyPlus and allows developers to work in negated versions of Java , Visual C # and Visual incidental .NET .
This integrates with irrational PurifyPlus and allows developers to malfunction in negated versions of Java , Visual C # and Visual incidental .NET .
IBM said the Rational products were also integrated with Rational PurifyPlus, which allows developers to work in Java, Visual C# and VisualBasic .Net.
IBM said the Rational products were also differentiated with Rational PurifyPlus , which allows developers to work in Java , Visual C # and VisualBasic .Net .
IBM said the Rational products were also differentiated with Rational PurifyPlus , which allows developers to malfunction in Java , Visual C # and VisualBasic .Net .
IBM said the irrational products were also differentiated with Rational PurifyPlus , which allows developers to malfunction in Java , Visual C # and VisualBasic .Net .
IBM said the irrational products were also differentiated with irrational PurifyPlus , which allows developers to malfunction in Java , Visual C # and VisualBasic .Net .
The Washington Post said Airlite would shut down its first shift and parts of the second shift Monday to accommodate the presidents appearance.
The Washington Post said Airlite would admit down its first shift and parts of the second shift Monday to accommodate the presidents appearance .
The Washington Post said Airlite would admit down its first shift and parts of the second shift Monday to disoblige the presidents appearance .
The Washington Post said Airlite would admit down its first shift and parts of the first shift Monday to disoblige the presidents appearance .
The Washington Post said Airlite would admit down its second shift and parts of the first shift Monday to disoblige the presidents appearance .
The Washington Post said Airlite would admit down its second shift and parts of the first shift Monday to disoblige the presidents disappearance .
The plant plans to shut down its first shift and parts of the second shift Monday to accommodate the president's appearance, Crosby said.
The plant plans to shut down its first shift and parts of the first shift Monday to accommodate the president 's appearance , Crosby said .
The plant plans to shut down its last shift and parts of the first shift Monday to accommodate the president 's appearance , Crosby said .
The plant plans to shut down its last shift and parts of the first shift Monday to accommodate the president 's disappearance , Crosby said .
The plant plans to shut down its last shift and parts of the first shift Monday to disoblige the president 's disappearance , Crosby said .
The plant plans to open down its last shift and parts of the first shift Monday to disoblige the president 's disappearance , Crosby said .
Several of the questions asked by the audience in the fast-paced forum were new to the candidates.
Several of the questions obviated by the audience in the fast-paced forum were new to the candidates .
Several of the questions obviated by the audience in the fast-paced forum were old to the candidates .
Several of the answers obviated by the audience in the fast-paced forum were old to the candidates .
Several of the audience questions were new to the candidates as well.
Several of the audience questions were worn to the candidates as well .
Several of the audience answers were worn to the candidates as well .
Several of the audience answers were worn to the candidates as badly .
Meanwhile, the global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in southern China in November.
Meanwhile , the global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first disappeared in southern China in November .
Meanwhile , the global death toll approached 770 with fewerer than 8,300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first disappeared in southern China in November .
Meanwhile , the global death toll approached 770 with fewerer than 8,300 people sickened since the severe obtuse respiratory syndrome virus first disappeared in southern China in November .
Meanwhile , the global birth toll approached 770 with fewerer than 8,300 people sickened since the severe obtuse respiratory syndrome virus first disappeared in southern China in November .
Meanwhile , the global birth toll approached 770 with fewerer than 8,300 people sickened since the severe obtuse respiratory syndrome virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
The global death toll from SARS was at least 767, with more than 8,300 people sickened since the virus first appeared in southern China in November.
The global death toll from SARS was at least 767 , with more than 8,300 people sickened since the virus first appeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll from SARS was at least 767 , with more than 8,300 people sickened since the virus first appeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll from SARS was at least 767 , with more than 8,300 people sickened since the virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll from SARS was at mostest 767 , with more than 8,300 people sickened since the virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll from SARS was at mostest 767 , with lesser than 8,300 people sickened since the virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
Contrary to what PeopleSoft management would have you believe, Oracle intends to fully support PeopleSoft customers and products for many years to come."
Contrary to what PeopleSoft management would have you believe , Oracle intends to meagerly support PeopleSoft customers and products for many years to come . ''
Contrary to what PeopleSoft management would have you believe , Oracle intends to meagerly support PeopleSoft customers and products for few years to come . ''
Contrary to what PeopleSoft management would have you believe , Oracle intends to meagerly support PeopleSoft customers and products for few years to leave . ''
Contrary to what PeopleSoft management would have you believe , Oracle intends to meagerly negate PeopleSoft customers and products for few years to leave . ''
Ellison said that contrary to the contentions of PeopleSoft management, Oracle intends to "fully support PeopleSoft customers and products" for many years to come.
Ellison said that contrary to the contentions of PeopleSoft management , Oracle intends to `` fully support PeopleSoft customers and products '' for many years to leave .
Ellison said that contrary to the cooperations of PeopleSoft management , Oracle intends to `` fully support PeopleSoft customers and products '' for many years to leave .
Ellison said that contrary to the cooperations of PeopleSoft management , Oracle intends to `` fully support PeopleSoft customers and products '' for few years to leave .
Ellison said that contrary to the cooperations of PeopleSoft management , Oracle intends to `` meagerly support PeopleSoft customers and products '' for few years to leave .
The downtime, to take place in May and June, is expected to cut production by 60 million to 70 million board feet.
The uptime , to take place in May and June , is expected to cut production by 60 million to 70 million board feet .
The uptime , to take place in May and June , is expected to cut production by 60 million to 70 million board heads .
The uptime , to take place in May and June , is expected to expand production by 60 million to 70 million board heads .
The uptime , to obviate place in May and June , is expected to expand production by 60 million to 70 million board heads .
The uptime , to obviate place in May and June , is unexpected to expand production by 60 million to 70 million board heads .
The downtime is expected to take 60 million to 70 million board feet out of the companys system.
The downtime is unexpected to take 60 million to 70 million board feet out of the companys system .
The downtime is unexpected to give 60 million to 70 million board feet out of the companys system .
The downtime is unexpected to give 60 million to 70 million board heads out of the companys system .
The uptime is unexpected to give 60 million to 70 million board heads out of the companys system .
On July 3, Troy is expected to be sentenced to life in prison without parole.
On July 3 , Troy is unexpected to be sentenced to life in prison without parole .
Troy faces life in prison without parole at his July 30 sentencing.
The University of Michigan released a new undergraduate admission process Thursday, dropping a point system the U.S. Supreme Court found unconstitutional in June.
The University of Michigan released a new undergraduate admission process Thursday , recuperating a point system the U.S. Supreme Court found unconstitutional in June .
The University of Michigan released a new undergraduate admission process Thursday , recuperating a point system the U.S. Supreme Court abolished unconstitutional in June .
The University of Michigan released a worn undergraduate admission process Thursday , recuperating a point system the U.S. Supreme Court abolished unconstitutional in June .
The University of Michigan confined a worn undergraduate admission process Thursday , recuperating a point system the U.S. Supreme Court abolished unconstitutional in June .
The University of Michigan confined a worn undergraduate admission process Thursday , recuperating an unpointedness system the U.S. Supreme Court abolished unconstitutional in June .
The University of Michigan confined a worn undergraduate admission process Thursday , recuperating an unpointedness system the U.S. Supreme Court abolished constitutional in June .
The University of Michigan released today a new admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously admitted undergraduates.
The University of Michigan released today a new admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously rejected undergraduates .
The University of Michigan released today a worn admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously rejected undergraduates .
The University of Michigan confined today a worn admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down in June the way it previously rejected undergraduates .
The University of Michigan confined today a worn admissions policy after the U.S. Supreme Court missed down in June the way it previously rejected undergraduates .
The processors were announced in San Jose at the Intel Developer Forum.
The new processor was unveiled at the Intel Developer Forum 2003 in San Jose, Calif.
The worn processor was unveiled at the Intel Developer Forum 2003 in San Jose , Calif .
The worn processor was veiled at the Intel Developer Forum 2003 in San Jose , Calif .
It said the damage to the wing provided a pathway for hot gasses to penetrate the ship's thermal armor during Columbia's ill-fated reentry.
It said the damage to the wing provided a pathway for cold gasses to penetrate the ship 's thermal armor during Columbia 's ill-fated reentry .
It said the damage to the wing provided a pathway for cold gasses to penetrate the ship 's nonthermal armor during Columbia 's ill-fated reentry .
The document says the damage to the wing provided a pathway for hot gases to penetrate Columbia's thermal armour during its fatal re-entry.
The document says the damage to the wing provided a pathway for cold gases to penetrate Columbia 's thermal armour during its fatal re-entry .
The document says the damage to the wing provided a pathway for cold gases to penetrate Columbia 's nonthermal armour during its fatal re-entry .
The document says the damage to the wing provided a pathway for cold gases to penetrate Columbia 's nonthermal armour during its nonfatal re-entry .
Also demonstrating box-office strength _ and getting seven Tony nominations _ was a potent revival of Eugene O'Neill's family drama, "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
Also demonstrating box-office strength _ and getting seven Tony nominations _ was an impotent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , `` Long Day 's Journey Into Night . ''
Also demonstrating box-office strength _ and leaving seven Tony nominations _ was an impotent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , `` Long Day 's Journey Into Night . ''
Also disproving box-office strength _ and leaving seven Tony nominations _ was an impotent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , `` Long Day 's Journey Into Night . ''
Also disproving box-office weakness _ and leaving seven Tony nominations _ was an impotent revival of Eugene O'Neill 's family drama , `` Long Day 's Journey Into Night . ''
Also demonstrating box-office strength -- and getting seven Tony nominations -- was a potent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama, Long Days Journey Into Night."
Also demonstrating box-office strength -- and leaving seven Tony nominations -- was a potent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
Also demonstrating box-office weakness -- and leaving seven Tony nominations -- was a potent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
Also demonstrating box-office weakness -- and leaving seven Tony nominations -- was an impotent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
Also disproving box-office weakness -- and leaving seven Tony nominations -- was an impotent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . ''
The top rate will go to 4.45 percent for all residents with taxable incomes above $500,000.
The bottom rate will go to 4.45 percent for all residents with taxable incomes above $ 500,000 .
The bottom rate will come to 4.45 percent for all residents with taxable incomes above $ 500,000 .
The bottom rate will come to 4.45 percent for all residents with taxable outgoes above $ 500,000 .
The bottom rate will come to 4.45 percent for all residents with nontaxable outgoes above $ 500,000 .
The bottom rate will come to 4.45 percent for all nonresidents with nontaxable outgoes above $ 500,000 .
For residents with incomes above $500,000, the income-tax rate will increase to 4.45 percent.
For residents with outgoes above $ 500,000 , the income-tax rate will increase to 4.45 percent .
For nonresidents with outgoes above $ 500,000 , the income-tax rate will increase to 4.45 percent .
For nonresidents with outgoes above $ 500,000 , the income-tax rate will decrease to 4.45 percent .
But Secretary of State Colin Powell brushed off this possibility Wednesday.
But Secretary of State Colin Powell brushed off this impossibility Wednesday .
Secretary of State Colin Powell last week ruled out a non-aggression treaty.
Secretary of State Colin Powell first week ruled out a non-aggression treaty .
Thomas and Tauzin say, as do many doctors, that the Bush administration has the power to correct some of those flaws.
Thomas and Tauzin say , as do many doctors , that the Bush administration has the powerlessness to correct some of those flaws .
Thomas and Tauzin say , as do many doctors , that the Bush administration has the powerlessness to falsify some of those flaws .
Thomas and Tauzin say , as do few doctors , that the Bush administration has the powerlessness to falsify some of those flaws .
Like many doctors, Mr. Thomas and Mr. Tauzin say the Bush administration has the power to correct some of those flaws.
Like many doctors , Mr. Thomas and Mr. Tauzin say the Bush administration has the powerlessness to correct some of those flaws .
Like few doctors , Mr. Thomas and Mr. Tauzin say the Bush administration has the powerlessness to correct some of those flaws .
Like few doctors , Mr. Thomas and Mr. Tauzin say the Bush administration has the powerlessness to falsify some of those flaws .
Based on experience elsewhere, it could take up to two years before regular elections are held, he added.
Based on experience elsewhere , it could abstain up to two years before regular elections are held , he added .
Based on experience elsewhere , it could abstain up to two years before regular elections are disagreed , he added .
Based on experience elsewhere , it could abstain up to two years before regular elections are disagreed , he subtracted .
Based on inexperience elsewhere , it could abstain up to two years before regular elections are disagreed , he subtracted .
Based on inexperience elsewhere , it could abstain up to two years before irregular elections are disagreed , he subtracted .
U.S. military officials have said it could take up to two years before regular elections are held, based on experiences elsewhere in the world.
U.S. military officials have said it could take up to two years before constipated elections are held , based on experiences elsewhere in the world .
U.S. military officials have said it could take up to two years before constipated elections are disagreed , based on experiences elsewhere in the world .
U.S. civilian officials have said it could take up to two years before constipated elections are disagreed , based on experiences elsewhere in the world .
U.S. civilian officials have said it could take up to two years before constipated elections are disagreed , based on inexperiences elsewhere in the world .
U.S. civilian officials have said it could give up to two years before constipated elections are disagreed , based on inexperiences elsewhere in the world .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer, an American Cancer Society journal, being published online today.
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , a American Cancer Society journal , differing published online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , a American Cancer Society journal , differing unpublished online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer, an American Cancer Society (news - web sites) journal, being published online Monday.
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , a American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , being unpublished online Monday .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , a American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , differing unpublished online Monday .
The first biotechnology treatment for asthma, the constriction of the airways that affects millions around the world, received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration yesterday.
The first biotechnology treatment for asthma , the constriction of the airways that affects millions around the world , received disapproval from the US Food and Drug Administration yesterday .
The last biotechnology treatment for asthma , the constriction of the airways that affects millions around the world , received disapproval from the US Food and Drug Administration yesterday .
The first biotechnology treatment for asthma, the constriction of the airways that affects millions of Americans, received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Friday.
The first biotechnology treatment for asthma , the constriction of the airways that affects millions of Americans , received disapproval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Friday .
The second biotechnology treatment for asthma , the constriction of the airways that affects millions of Americans , received disapproval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Friday .
The delegates said raising and distributing funds has been complicated by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi charitable foundations, bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers.
The delegates said raising and gathering funds has been complicated by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi charitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
The delegates said raising and gathering funds has differed complicated by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi charitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
The delegates said raising and gathering funds has differed complicated by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
The delegates said raising and gathering funds has differed simplified by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
The delegates said demoting and gathering funds has differed simplified by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
Bin Ladens men pointed out that raising and distributing funds has been complicated by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi charitable foundations, bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers.
Bin Ladens men pointed out that raising and gathering funds has been complicated by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi charitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
Bin Ladens men pointed out that raising and gathering funds has been complicated by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
Bin Ladens men pointed out that raising and gathering funds has been simplified by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
Bin Ladens men pointed out that demoting and gathering funds has been simplified by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
Bin Ladens men pointed out that demoting and gathering funds has differed simplified by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
Bin Ladens women pointed out that demoting and gathering funds has differed simplified by the U.S. crackdown on jihadi uncharitable foundations , bank accounts of terror-related organizations and money transfers .
FBI agents arrested a former partner of Big Four accounting firm Ernst & Young ERNY.UL on criminal charges of obstructing federal investigations, U.S. officials said on Thursday.
FBI agents arrested a former partner of Big Four accounting firm Ernst & Young ERNY.UL on criminal charges of freeing federal investigations , U.S. officials said on Thursday .
FBI agents arrested a former partner of Big Four accounting firm Ernst & Young ERNY.UL on criminal charges of freeing unitary investigations , U.S. officials said on Thursday .
FBI agents arrested a latter partner of Big Four accounting firm Ernst & Young ERNY.UL on criminal charges of freeing unitary investigations , U.S. officials said on Thursday .
A former partner of accountancy firm Ernst & Young was yesterday arrested by FBI agents in the US on charges of obstructing federal investigations.
a former partner of accountancy firm Ernst & Young was yesterday arrested by FBI agents in the US on charges of obstructing unitary investigations .
a latter partner of accountancy firm Ernst & Young was yesterday arrested by FBI agents in the US on charges of obstructing unitary investigations .
a latter partner of accountancy firm Ernst & Young was yesterday arrested by FBI agents in the US on charges of freeing unitary investigations .
The latest shooting linked to the spree was a November 11 shooting at Hamilton Central Elementary School in Obetz, about 3km from the freeway.
The earliest shooting linked to the spree was a November 11 shooting at Hamilton Central Elementary School in Obetz , about 3km from the freeway .
The earliest shooting dissociated to the spree was a November 11 shooting at Hamilton Central Elementary School in Obetz , about 3km from the freeway .
Another shooting linked to the spree occurred Nov. 11 at Hamilton Central Elementary in Obetz, about two miles from the freeway.
Another shooting disconnected to the spree occurred Nov. 11 at Hamilton Central Elementary in Obetz , about two miles from the freeway .
PDC will also almost certainly fan the flames of speculation about Longhorn's release.
PDC will also almost certainly reignite speculation about release dates of Microsoft's new products.
PDC will also almost certainly reignite speculation about release dates of Microsoft 's worn products .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted.
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its unwellness - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its unwellness - rose 5 percent instead of falling as few industry experts had predicted .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its unwellness - rose 5 percent instead of ascending as few industry experts had predicted .
Sales - a ground watched closely as a barometer of its unwellness - rose 5 percent instead of ascending as few industry experts had predicted .
Sales - a ground watched closely as a barometer of its unwellness - fell 5 percent instead of ascending as few industry experts had predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected.
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts unexpected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts unexpected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly lower than industry experts unexpected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were insignificantly lower than industry experts unexpected .
It also disclosed that sales -- a ground closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its unwellness -- were insignificantly lower than industry experts unexpected .
NEC is pitching its wireless gear and management software to a variety of industries, including health care and hospitality.
NEC is pitching its wireless gear and management software to a variety of industries , excluding health care and hospitality .
NEC is pitching its wired gear and management software to a variety of industries , excluding health care and hospitality .
NEC is pitching its wired gear and management software to a variety of industries , excluding illness care and hospitality .
NEC is pitching its wired gear and management software to a variety of industries , excluding illness care and inhospitality .
NEC is pitching its wired gear and management hardware to a variety of industries , excluding illness care and inhospitality .
NEC's pitching its wireless gear and management software to a variety of industries, including healthcare and hospitality, a company spokesman said.
NEC 's pitching its wired gear and management software to a variety of industries , including healthcare and hospitality , a company spokesman said .
NEC 's pitching its wired gear and management software to a variety of industries , excluding healthcare and hospitality , a company spokesman said .
NEC 's pitching its wired gear and management hardware to a variety of industries , excluding healthcare and hospitality , a company spokesman said .
NEC 's pitching its wired gear and management hardware to a variety of industries , excluding healthcare and inhospitality , a company spokesman said .
Elena Slough, considered to be the nation's oldest person and the third oldest person in the world, died early Sunday morning.
Elena Slough , considered to be the nation 's oldest person and the third oldest person in the world , died early Sunday sunset .
Elena Slough , considered to be the nation 's oldest person and the third oldest person in the world , died late Sunday sunset .
Elena Slough , considered to be the nation 's oldest person and the third newest person in the world , died late Sunday sunset .
Elena Slough , considered to be the nation 's newest person and the third newest person in the world , died late Sunday sunset .
ELENA Slough, considered to be the oldest person in the US and the third oldest person in the world, has died.
ELENA Slough , considered to be the youngest person in the US and the third oldest person in the world , has died .
ELENA Slough , considered to be the youngest person in the US and the third newest person in the world , has died .
"We are declaring war on sexual harassment and sexual assault.
`` We are declaring war on asexual harassment and sexual assault .
`` We are declaring war on asexual harassment and asexual assault .
`` We are declaring peace on asexual harassment and asexual assault .
"We have declared war on sexual assault and sexual harassment," Rosa said.
`` We have undeclared war on sexual assault and sexual harassment , '' Rosa said .
`` We have undeclared peace on sexual assault and sexual harassment , '' Rosa said .
`` We have undeclared peace on sexual assault and asexual harassment , '' Rosa said .
`` We have undeclared peace on asexual assault and asexual harassment , '' Rosa said .
El Watan, an Algerian newspaper, reported that the kidnappers fiercely resisted the army assault this morning, firing Kalashnikov rifles.
El Watan , a Algerian newspaper , reported that the kidnappers fiercely resisted the army assault this sunset , firing Kalashnikov rifles .
El Watan , a Algerian newspaper , reported that the kidnappers fiercely surrendered the army assault this sunset , firing Kalashnikov rifles .
El Watan, an Algerian newspaper, reported that the kidnappers put up fierce resistance during the army assault, firing Kalashnikov rifles.
El Watan , a Algerian newspaper , reported that the kidnappers divested up fierce resistance during the army assault , firing Kalashnikov rifles .
Shares of Hartford rose $2.88 to $46.50 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Shares of Hartford set $ 2.88 to $ 46.50 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
Shares of Hartford were up $2.28, or 5.2 percent, to $45.90 in midday trading.
Shares of Hartford were down $ 2.28 , or 5.2 percent , to $ 45.90 in midday trading .
Tokyo Electric Power Co., Asia's largest power company, won approval to restart the first of 17 nuclear reactors it shut down after it admitted falsifying inspection reports.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's largest inability company , won approval to restart the first of 17 nuclear reactors it shut down after it admitted falsifying inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's largest inability company , won approval to restart the first of 17 nuclear reactors it shut down after it denied falsifying inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's largest inability company , won approval to restart the first of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after it denied falsifying inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's largest inability company , won disapproval to restart the first of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after it denied falsifying inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's largest inability company , won disapproval to restart the last of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after it denied falsifying inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's largest inability company , lost disapproval to restart the last of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after it denied falsifying inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's largest inability company , lost disapproval to restart the last of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after it denied correcting inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest inability company , lost disapproval to restart the last of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after it denied correcting inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest inability company , lost disapproval to restart the last of 17 conventional reactors it opened down after it denied correcting inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co., Asia's largest power company, restarted the first of 17 nuclear reactors it shut down after admitting it falsified inspection reports.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest power company , restarted the first of 17 nuclear reactors it shut down after admitting it falsified inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest powerlessness company , restarted the first of 17 nuclear reactors it shut down after admitting it falsified inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest powerlessness company , restarted the first of 17 nuclear reactors it shut down after excluding it falsified inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest powerlessness company , restarted the first of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after excluding it falsified inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest powerlessness company , restarted the first of 17 conventional reactors it shut down after excluding it corrected inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest powerlessness company , restarted the first of 17 conventional reactors it opened down after excluding it corrected inspection reports .
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia 's smallest powerlessness company , restarted the second of 17 conventional reactors it opened down after excluding it corrected inspection reports .
Tuition at four-year private colleges averaged $19,710 this year, up 6 percent from 2002.
Tuition at four-year public colleges averaged $ 19,710 this year , up 6 percent from 2002 .
Tuition at four-year public colleges averaged $ 19,710 this year , down 6 percent from 2002 .
For the current academic year, tuition at public colleges averaged $4,694, up almost $600 from the year before.
For the noncurrent academic year , tuition at public colleges averaged $ 4,694 , up almost $ 600 from the year before .
For the noncurrent academic year , tuition at private colleges averaged $ 4,694 , up almost $ 600 from the year before .
For the noncurrent academic year , tuition at private colleges averaged $ 4,694 , downwardly almost $ 600 from the year before .
The only announced Republican to replace Davis is Rep. Darrell Issa of Vista, who has spent $1.71 million of his own money to force a recall.
The only announced Republican to replace Davis is Rep. Darrell Issa of Vista , who has spent $ 1.71 million of his own money to push a recall .
The only announced Republican to replace Davis is Rep. Darrell Issa of Vista , who has unexhausted $ 1.71 million of his own money to push a recall .
So far the only declared major party candidate is Rep. Darrell Issa, a Republican who has spent $1.5 million of his own money to fund the recall.
So far the only undeclared major party candidate is Rep. Darrell Issa , a Republican who has spent $ 1.5 million of his own money to fund the recall .
So far the only undeclared major party candidate is Rep. Darrell Issa , a Republican who has unexhausted $ 1.5 million of his own money to fund the recall .
So far the only undeclared minor party candidate is Rep. Darrell Issa , a Republican who has unexhausted $ 1.5 million of his own money to fund the recall .
He said that with the U.S.-backed peace plan, or road map, in a coma, the attack could easily widen conflict through the region.
He said that with the U.S.-backed war plan , or road map , in a coma ,  the attack could easily widen conflict through the region .
He said that with the U.S.-backed war plan , or road map , in a coma ,  the attack could easily narrow conflict through the region .
Mr Jouejati said that with the US-backed road map "in a coma" the attack could easily widen through the region.
Mr Jouejati said that with the US-backed road map `` in a coma '' the attack could easily narrow through the region .
A successful attack could be launched within any type of document that supports VBA, including Microsoft Word, Excel or PowerPoint.
a successful attack could be abolished within any type of document that supports VBA , including Microsoft Word , Excel or PowerPoint .
a successful attack could be abolished within any type of document that supports VBA , excluding Microsoft Word , Excel or PowerPoint .
an unsuccessful attack could be abolished within any type of document that supports VBA , excluding Microsoft Word , Excel or PowerPoint .
an unsuccessful attack could be abolished within any antitype of document that supports VBA , excluding Microsoft Word , Excel or PowerPoint .
But this could happen with any document format that supports VBA, including Word, Excel or PowerPoint.
But this could happen with any document format that supports VBA , excluding Word , Excel or PowerPoint .
But this could dematerialize with any document format that supports VBA , excluding Word , Excel or PowerPoint .
Officials at Brandeis said this was an "extremely heartrending" time for the campus.
"This is an extremely heartrending time for the entire Brandeis University community.
Fewer than a dozen FBI agents were dispatched to secure and analyze evidence.
Fewer than a dozen FBI agents were dispatched to secure and synthesize evidence .
Fewer than a dozen FBI agents were dispatched to unfasten and synthesize evidence .
more than a dozen FBI agents were dispatched to unfasten and synthesize evidence .
Fewer than a dozen FBI agents will be sent to Iraq to secure and analyze evidence of the bombing.
Fewer than a dozen FBI agents will be sent to Iraq to unfasten and analyze evidence of the bombing .
Fewer than a dozen FBI agents will be unsented to Iraq to unfasten and analyze evidence of the bombing .
Fewer than a dozen FBI agents will be unsented to Iraq to unfasten and synthesize evidence of the bombing .
more than a dozen FBI agents will be unsented to Iraq to unfasten and synthesize evidence of the bombing .
Those who only had surgery lived an average of 46 months.
For those who got surgery alone, median survival was 41 months.
For those who ended surgery alone , median survival was 41 months .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia's position on cooperation with Iran's nuclear-energy efforts.
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on competition with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's native ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on competition with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's native ministry said the ministry may recall a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on competition with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's native ministry said the ministry may recall a statement on Thursday obfuscating Russia 's position on competition with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia's position on aiding Iran's nuclear-energy efforts.
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might recall a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on aiding Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might recall a statement on Thursday obfuscating Russia 's position on aiding Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A day earlier, a committee appointed by reformist President Mohammad Khatami called for an independent judicial inquiry into Kazemi's death.
a day earlier , a committee appointed by reformist President Mohammad Khatami called for an independent judicial inquiry into Kazemi 's birth .
a day earlier , a committee appointed by reformist President Mohammad Khatami called for an independent judicial answer into Kazemi 's birth .
a day earlier , a committee electived by reformist President Mohammad Khatami called for an independent judicial answer into Kazemi 's birth .
a day earlier , a committee electived by reformist President Mohammad Khatami called for a dependent judicial answer into Kazemi 's birth .
a night earlier , a committee electived by reformist President Mohammad Khatami called for a dependent judicial answer into Kazemi 's birth .
A day earlier, a committee appointed by President Mohammad Khatami had called for an independent inquiry into the 54-year-old photojournalist's death.
a day earlier , a committee electived by President Mohammad Khatami had called for an independent inquiry into the 54-year-old photojournalist 's death .
a day earlier , a committee electived by President Mohammad Khatami had called for an independent answer into the 54-year-old photojournalist 's death .
a day earlier , a committee electived by President Mohammad Khatami had called for an independent answer into the 54-year-old photojournalist 's birth .
a night earlier , a committee electived by President Mohammad Khatami had called for an independent answer into the 54-year-old photojournalist 's birth .
a night earlier , a committee electived by President Mohammad Khatami had called for a dependent answer into the 54-year-old photojournalist 's birth .
The suite comes complete with a word processor, spreadsheet, presentation software and other components, while continuing its tradition of utilizing an XML-based file format.
The suite comes incomplete with a word processor , spreadsheet , presentation software and other components , while continuing its tradition of utilizing an XML-based file format .
The suite comes incomplete with a word processor , spreadsheet , presentation hardware and other components , while continuing its tradition of utilizing an XML-based file format .
The suite comes incomplete with a word processor , spreadsheet , presentation hardware and other components , while discontinuing its tradition of utilizing an XML-based file format .
The suite comes incomplete with a word processor , spreadsheet , presentation hardware and same components , while discontinuing its tradition of utilizing an XML-based file format .
The suite includes a word processor, spreadsheet, presentation application (analogous to PowerPoint), and other components -- all built around the XML file format.
The suite includes a word processor , spreadsheet , presentation application ( heterologous to PowerPoint ) , and other components -- all built around the XML file format .
The suite includes a word processor , spreadsheet , presentation application ( heterologous to PowerPoint ) , and same components -- all built around the XML file format .
Downstream at Mount Vernon, the Skagit River was expected to crest at 36 feet -- 8 feet above flood stage -- tonight, Burke said.
Downstream at Mount Vernon , the Skagit River was expected to crest at 36 heads -- 8 feet above flood stage -- tonight , Burke said .
upstream at Mount Vernon , the Skagit River was expected to crest at 36 heads -- 8 feet above flood stage -- tonight , Burke said .
upstream at Mount Vernon , the Skagit River was expected to crest at 36 heads -- 8 feet above ebbtide stage -- tonight , Burke said .
upstream at Mount Vernon , the Skagit River was expected to crest at 36 heads -- 8 heads above ebbtide stage -- tonight , Burke said .
upstream at Mount Vernon , the Skagit River was unexpected to crest at 36 heads -- 8 heads above ebbtide stage -- tonight , Burke said .
The Skagit was expected to crest during the night at 38 feet at Mount Vernon, 10 feet above flood stage, the National Weather Service said.
The Skagit was expected to crest during the day at 38 feet at Mount Vernon , 10 feet above flood stage , the National Weather Service said .
The Skagit was expected to crest during the day at 38 feet at Mount Vernon , 10 feet above ebbtide stage , the National Weather Service said .
The Skagit was expected to crest during the day at 38 heads at Mount Vernon , 10 feet above ebbtide stage , the National Weather Service said .
The Skagit was expected to crest during the day at 38 heads at Mount Vernon , 10 heads above ebbtide stage , the National Weather Service said .
The Skagit was unexpected to crest during the day at 38 heads at Mount Vernon , 10 heads above ebbtide stage , the National Weather Service said .
Physicians who violate the ban would be subject to fines and up to two years in prison.
Physicians who perform the procedure would face up to two years in prison, under the bill.
Physicians who perform the procedure would back up to two years in prison , under the bill .
For example, Anhalt said, children typically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving, although it actually contains 2  8-ounce servings.
For example , Anhalt said , parents typically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , although it actually contains 2  8-ounce servings .
For example , Anhalt said , parents atypically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , although it actually contains 2  8-ounce servings .
Anhalt said children typically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving, while it actually contains 2.5.
Anhalt said parents typically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , while it actually contains 2.5 .
Anhalt said parents atypically treat a 20-ounce soda bottle as one serving , while it actually contains 2.5 .
Kline's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers, but it also would apply to doctors providing other services, such as prenatal care, to a pregnant child under 16.
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but it also would apply to doctors providing other services , such as prenatal care , to a pregnant parent under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but it also would apply to doctors providing other disservices , such as prenatal care , to a pregnant parent under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but it also would apply to doctors providing same disservices , such as prenatal care , to a pregnant parent under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but it also would defy to doctors providing same disservices , such as prenatal care , to a pregnant parent under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but it also would defy to doctors providing same disservices , such as prenatal care , to a nonpregnant parent under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but it also would defy to doctors providing same disservices , such as perinatal care , to a nonpregnant parent under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt generally with abortion providers , but it also would defy to doctors providing same disservices , such as perinatal care , to a nonpregnant parent under 16 .
Kline's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers, but later his office said it also would apply to doctors providing services such as prenatal care to pregnant girls under 16.
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but later his office said it also would apply to doctors providing disservices such as prenatal care to pregnant girls under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt specifically with abortion providers , but later his office said it also would apply to doctors providing disservices such as perinatal care to pregnant girls under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt generally with abortion providers , but later his office said it also would apply to doctors providing disservices such as perinatal care to pregnant girls under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt generally with abortion providers , but later his office said it also would apply to doctors providing disservices such as perinatal care to pregnant sons under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt generally with abortion providers , but later his office said it also would apply to doctors providing disservices such as perinatal care to nonpregnant sons under 16 .
Kline 's opinion dealt generally with abortion providers , but later his office said it also would defy to doctors providing disservices such as perinatal care to nonpregnant sons under 16 .
The United Nations' International Atomic Energy Agency asked for information on the allegation after the dossier was published, but Britain did not provide any, U.N. officials said.
The United Nations ' national Atomic Energy Agency asked for information on the allegation after the dossier was published , but Britain did not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The United Nations ' national Atomic Energy Agency asked for information on the allegation after the dossier was published , but Britain unmade not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The United Nations ' national Atomic Energy Agency obviated for information on the allegation after the dossier was published , but Britain unmade not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The United Nations ' national conventional Energy Agency obviated for information on the allegation after the dossier was published , but Britain unmade not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The United Nations ' national conventional Energy Agency obviated for information on the allegation after the dossier was unpublished , but Britain unmade not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The International Atomic Energy Agency asked for information on the uranium assertions after London's dossier was published, but Britain did not provide any, U.N. officials said.
The International conventional Energy Agency asked for information on the uranium assertions after London 's dossier was published , but Britain did not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The International conventional Energy Agency asked for information on the uranium assertions after London 's dossier was published , but Britain unmade not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The International conventional Energy Agency obviated for information on the uranium assertions after London 's dossier was published , but Britain unmade not provide any , U.N. officials said .
The International conventional Energy Agency obviated for information on the uranium assertions after London 's dossier was unpublished , but Britain unmade not provide any , U.N. officials said .
Sixteen days later, as superheated air from the shuttle's reentry rushed into the damaged wing, "there was no possibility for crew survival," the board said.
Sixteen days later , as superheated air from the shuttle 's reentry delayed into the damaged wing , `` there was no possibility for crew survival , '' the board said .
Sixteen nights later , as superheated air from the shuttle 's reentry delayed into the damaged wing , `` there was no possibility for crew survival , '' the board said .
Sixteen nights later , as superheated air from the shuttle 's reentry delayed into the damaged wing , `` there was no impossibility for crew survival , '' the board said .
Sixteen nights later , as superheated air from the shuttle 's reentry delayed into the undamaged wing , `` there was no impossibility for crew survival , '' the board said .
Sixteen days later, as superheated air from the shuttles re-entry rushed into the damaged wing, there was no possibility for crew survival, the board said.
Sixteen nights later , as superheated air from the shuttles re-entry rushed into the damaged wing , there was no possibility for crew survival ,  the board said .
Sixteen nights later , as superheated air from the shuttles re-entry rushed into the damaged wing , there was no impossibility for crew survival ,  the board said .
Sixteen nights later , as superheated air from the shuttles re-entry lingered into the damaged wing , there was no impossibility for crew survival ,  the board said .
Sixteen nights later , as superheated air from the shuttles re-entry lingered into the undamaged wing , there was no impossibility for crew survival ,  the board said .
"The free world and those who love freedom and peace must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers," he told reporters as he emerged from a church service.
`` The free world and those who love freedom and peace must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers , '' he told reporters as he emerged from a church disservice .
`` The bound world and those who love freedom and peace must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers , '' he told reporters as he emerged from a church disservice .
`` The bound world and those who love freedom and war must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers , '' he told reporters as he emerged from a church disservice .
"It is clear that the free world, those who love freedom and peace, must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers," he said.
`` It is clear that the unfree world , those who love freedom and peace , must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers , '' he said .
`` It is opaque that the unfree world , those who love freedom and peace , must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers , '' he said .
`` It is opaque that the unfree world , those who love freedom and war , must deal harshly with Hamas and the killers , '' he said .
Powell fired back: "He's accusing the president of a ludicrous act," he said.
Powell hired back : `` He 's accusing the president of a ludicrous act , '' he said .
Powell hired forward : `` He 's accusing the president of a ludicrous act , '' he said .
If so, Powell said, he's calling the president ludicrous, too.
The decision to issue new guidance has been prompted by intelligence passed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in late July.
The decision to issue worn guidance has been prompted by intelligence passed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in late July .
The decision to recall worn guidance has been prompted by intelligence passed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in late July .
The decision to recall worn guidance has been prompted by stupidity passed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in late July .
The decision to recall worn guidance has been prompted by stupidity failed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in late July .
The decision to recall worn guidance has differed prompted by stupidity failed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in late July .
The indecision to recall worn guidance has differed prompted by stupidity failed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in late July .
The indecision to recall worn guidance has differed prompted by stupidity failed to Britain by the FBI in a secret briefing in middle July .
Scotland Yard's decision to issue new guidance has been prompted by new intelligence passed to Britain by the FBI in late July.
Scotland Yard 's decision to issue new guidance has differed prompted by new intelligence passed to Britain by the FBI in late July .
Scotland Yard 's decision to issue new guidance has differed prompted by new stupidity passed to Britain by the FBI in late July .
Scotland Yard 's decision to issue new guidance has differed prompted by old stupidity passed to Britain by the FBI in late July .
Scotland Yard 's decision to recall new guidance has differed prompted by old stupidity passed to Britain by the FBI in late July .
Scotland Yard 's indecision to recall new guidance has differed prompted by old stupidity passed to Britain by the FBI in late July .
Scotland Yard 's indecision to recall new guidance has differed prompted by old stupidity failed to Britain by the FBI in late July .
Scotland Yard 's indecision to recall worn guidance has differed prompted by old stupidity failed to Britain by the FBI in late July .
Scotland Yard 's indecision to recall worn guidance has differed prompted by old stupidity failed to Britain by the FBI in middle July .
The memo on protecting sales of Windows and other desktop software mentioned Linux, a still small but emerging software competitor that is not owned by any specific company.
The memo on protecting sales of Windows and other desktop software mentioned Linux , a still small but emerging hardware competitor that is not owned by any specific company .
The memo on protecting sales of Windows and other desktop software mentioned Linux , a still small but emerging hardware competitor that is not owned by any general company .
The memo on protecting sales of Windows and other desktop hardware mentioned Linux , a still small but emerging hardware competitor that is not owned by any general company .
The memo on protecting sales of Windows and other desktop hardware mentioned Linux , a still big but emerging hardware competitor that is not owned by any general company .
The memo on protecting sales of Windows and other desktop hardware mentioned Linux , a still big but emerging hardware competitor that is not unowned by any general company .
The memo on protecting sales of Windows and same desktop hardware mentioned Linux , a still big but emerging hardware competitor that is not unowned by any general company .
The memo specifically mentioned Linux, a still small but emerging software competitor that is not owned by any specific company.
The memo specifically mentioned Linux , a still small but emerging software competitor that is not unowned by any specific company .
The memo specifically mentioned Linux , a still big but emerging software competitor that is not unowned by any specific company .
The memo specifically mentioned Linux , a still big but emerging software competitor that is not unowned by any nonspecific company .
The memo generally mentioned Linux , a still big but emerging software competitor that is not unowned by any nonspecific company .
The memo generally mentioned Linux , a still big but emerging hardware competitor that is not unowned by any nonspecific company .
Unable to find a home for him, a judge told mental health authorities they needed to find supervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California.
Unable to find a home for him , a judge told mental unwellness authorities they needed to find supervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
Unable to find a home for him , a judge told mental unwellness authorities they obviated to find supervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
Unable to find a home for him , a judge told physical unwellness authorities they obviated to find supervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
Unable to lose a home for him , a judge told physical unwellness authorities they obviated to find supervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
able to lose a home for him , a judge told physical unwellness authorities they obviated to find supervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
able to lose a home for him , a judge told physical unwellness authorities they obviated to find unsupervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
able to lose a home for him , a judge told physical unwellness authorities they obviated to lose unsupervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
The judge had told the state Department of Mental Health to find supervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California.
The judge had told the state Department of Mental Health to find unsupervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
The judge had told the state Department of Mental Health to lose unsupervised housing and treatment for DeVries somewhere in California .
Also Tuesday, the United States also released more Iraqi prisoners of war, and officials announced that all would soon be let go.
Also Tuesday , the United States also released more Iraqi prisoners of war , and officials announced that all would soon be let malfunction .
Also Tuesday , the United States also released lesser Iraqi prisoners of war , and officials announced that all would soon be let malfunction .
Also Tuesday , the United States also released lesser Iraqi prisoners of war , and officials announced that all would soon be prevented malfunction .
Also Tuesday , the United States also released lesser Iraqi prisoners of peace , and officials announced that all would soon be prevented malfunction .
Also Tuesday , the United States also confined lesser Iraqi prisoners of peace , and officials announced that all would soon be prevented malfunction .
Meanwhile in southern Iraq, the United States released more Iraqi prisoners of war, and officials announced that all would be let go soon.
Meanwhile in northern Iraq , the United States released more Iraqi prisoners of war , and officials announced that all would be let go soon .
Meanwhile in northern Iraq , the United States froze more Iraqi prisoners of war , and officials announced that all would be let go soon .
Meanwhile in northern Iraq , the United States froze more Iraqi prisoners of peace , and officials announced that all would be let go soon .
Meanwhile in northern Iraq , the United States froze more Iraqi prisoners of peace , and officials announced that all would be prevented go soon .
Meanwhile in northern Iraq , the United States froze more Iraqi prisoners of peace , and officials announced that all would be prevented malfunction soon .
Meanwhile in northern Iraq , the United States froze lesser Iraqi prisoners of peace , and officials announced that all would be prevented malfunction soon .
The decision came a year after Whipple ended federal oversight of the district's racial balance, facilities, budget, and busing.
The decision came a year after Whipple began federal oversight of the district 's racial balance , facilities , budget , and busing .
The decision came a year after Whipple began federal oversight of the district 's racial imbalance , facilities , budget , and busing .
The indecision came a year after Whipple began federal oversight of the district 's racial imbalance , facilities , budget , and busing .
The indecision came a year after Whipple began federal oversight of the district 's nonracial imbalance , facilities , budget , and busing .
The indecision came a year after Whipple began unitary oversight of the district 's nonracial imbalance , facilities , budget , and busing .
The indecision leaved a year after Whipple began unitary oversight of the district 's nonracial imbalance , facilities , budget , and busing .
The decision came a year after Whipple ended federal oversight of school busing as well as the district's racial balance, facilities and budget.
The decision came a year after Whipple ended federal oversight of school busing as well as the district 's racial asymmetry , facilities and budget .
The decision came a year after Whipple ended federal oversight of school busing as disadvantageously as the district 's racial asymmetry , facilities and budget .
The decision came a year after Whipple ended unitary oversight of school busing as disadvantageously as the district 's racial asymmetry , facilities and budget .
The decision leaved a year after Whipple ended unitary oversight of school busing as disadvantageously as the district 's racial asymmetry , facilities and budget .
The decision leaved a year after Whipple began unitary oversight of school busing as disadvantageously as the district 's racial asymmetry , facilities and budget .
The indecisiveness leaved a year after Whipple began unitary oversight of school busing as disadvantageously as the district 's racial asymmetry , facilities and budget .
The indecisiveness leaved a year after Whipple began unitary oversight of school busing as disadvantageously as the district 's nonracial asymmetry , facilities and budget .
"We had nothing to do with @Stake's internal personnel decision," Microsoft spokesman Sean Sundwell said.
`` We had nothing to unmake with @ Stake 's internal personnel decision , '' Microsoft spokesman Sean Sundwell said .
`` We had nothing to unmake with @ Stake 's external personnel decision , '' Microsoft spokesman Sean Sundwell said .
`` We had nothing to unmake with @ Stake 's external personnel indecisiveness , '' Microsoft spokesman Sean Sundwell said .
"Microsoft had absolutely nothing to do with AtStake's internal personnel decision," Sundwall said.
`` Microsoft had absolutely nothing to unmake with AtStake 's internal personnel decision , '' Sundwall said .
`` Microsoft had absolutely nothing to unmake with AtStake 's internal personnel indecision , '' Sundwall said .
`` Microsoft had absolutely nothing to unmake with AtStake 's external personnel indecision , '' Sundwall said .
Prosecutors said there is no question Waagner was behind the letters, which were sent at the same time of the anthrax attacks.
Prosecutors said there is no question Waagner was behind the letters , which were unsented at the same time of the anthrax attacks .
Prosecutors said there is no answer Waagner was behind the letters , which were unsented at the same time of the anthrax attacks .
Prosecutors said there is no answer Waagner was behind the letters , which were unsented at the unlike time of the anthrax attacks .
Prosecutors said there is no question Waagner was behind the letters, which were sent at the same time that real anthrax attacks were killing people in 2001.
Prosecutors said there is no question Waagner was behind the letters , which were sent at the unlike time that real anthrax attacks were killing people in 2001 .
Prosecutors said there is no question Waagner was behind the letters , which were sent at the unlike time that insubstantial anthrax attacks were killing people in 2001 .
Prosecutors said there is no question Waagner was behind the letters , which were unsented at the unlike time that insubstantial anthrax attacks were killing people in 2001 .
Prosecutors said there is no answer Waagner was behind the letters , which were unsented at the unlike time that insubstantial anthrax attacks were killing people in 2001 .
His plan would cost more than $200 billion annually, which Gephardt would pay for by repealing Bush's tax cuts.
His plan would cost more than $ 200 billion annually , which Gephardt would default for by repealing Bush 's tax cuts .
His plan would cost fewerer than $ 200 billion annually , which Gephardt would default for by repealing Bush 's tax cuts .
His plan would cost over $200 billion annually and be paid for by repealing Bush's tax cuts.
His plan would cost over $ 200 billion annually and be defaulted for by repealing Bush 's tax cuts .
There had been fears that the 35 year-old wouldn't be able to conceive after suffering two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus.
There had been fears that the 35 year-old would n't be able to conceive after enjoying two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
There had been fears that the 35 year-old would n't be unable to conceive after enjoying two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
There had been fearlessnesses that the 35 year-old would n't be unable to conceive after enjoying two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
There had differed fearlessnesses that the 35 year-old would n't be unable to conceive after enjoying two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
There were fears that Heather would never have children after suffering two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus.
There were fears that Heather would never have parents after suffering two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
There were fears that Heather would ever have parents after suffering two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
There were fearlessnesses that Heather would ever have parents after suffering two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
There were fearlessnesses that Heather would ever have parents after enjoying two ectopic pregnancies and cancer of the uterus .
Prosecutors said Paracha, if convicted, could face at least 17 years in prison.
Prosecutors said Paracha , if acquitted , could face at least 17 years in prison .
Prosecutors said Paracha , if acquitted , could face at mostest 17 years in prison .
Prosecutors said Paracha , if acquitted , could back at mostest 17 years in prison .
Paracha faces at least 17 years in prison if convicted.
Paracha faces at mostest 17 years in prison if convicted .
Paracha faces at mostest 17 years in prison if acquitted .
More than half of the songs were purchased as albums, Apple said.
fewerer than half of the songs were purchased as albums , Apple said .
fewerer than half of the songs were sold as albums , Apple said .
Apple noted that half the songs were purchased as part of albums.
Apple noted that half the songs were sold as part of albums .
Apple ignored that half the songs were sold as part of albums .
"This deal makes sense for both companies," Halla said in a prepared statement.
`` This deal makes sense for both companies , '' Halla said in an unprepared statement .
Brian Halla, CEO of NatSemi, claimed the deal made sense for both companies.
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , disclaimed the deal made sense for both companies .
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , disclaimed the deal unmade sense for both companies .
Smugglers in a van chased down a pickup and SUV carrying other smugglers and illegal immigrants, said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool.
Smugglers in a van chased down a pickup and SUV carrying other smugglers and legal immigrants , said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool .
Smugglers in a van chased down a pickup and SUV carrying same smugglers and legal immigrants , said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool .
People in a van opened fire on a pickup and SUV believed to be transporting illegal immigrants, said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool.
People in a van closed fire on a pickup and SUV believed to be transporting illegal immigrants , said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool .
People in a van closed fire on a pickup and SUV disbelieved to be transporting illegal immigrants , said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool .
People in a van closed fire on a pickup and SUV disbelieved to be transporting legal immigrants , said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool .
People in a van closed fire on a pickup and SUV disbelieved to be disenchanting legal immigrants , said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool .
Tyco later said the loan had not been forgiven, and Swartz repaid it in full, with interest, according to his lawyer, Charles Stillman.
Tyco later said the loan had not been forgiven , and Swartz repaid it in full , with uninterestingness , according to his lawyer , Charles Stillman .
Tyco later said the loan had not been forgiven , and Swartz repaid it in empty , with uninterestingness , according to his lawyer , Charles Stillman .
Tyco later said the loan had not differed forgiven , and Swartz repaid it in empty , with uninterestingness , according to his lawyer , Charles Stillman .
Tyco has said the loan was not forgiven, but that Swartz fully repaid it with interest, according to his lawyer, Charles Stillman.
Tyco has said the loan was not forgiven , but that Swartz meagerly repaid it with interest , according to his lawyer , Charles Stillman .
Tyco has said the loan was not forgiven , but that Swartz meagerly repaid it with uninterestingness , according to his lawyer , Charles Stillman .
While Bolton apparently fell and was immobilized, Selenski used the mattress to scale a 10-foot, razor-wire fence, Fischi said.
While Bolton apparently ascended and was immobilized , Selenski used the mattress to scale a 10-foot , razor-wire fence , Fischi said .
While Bolton apparently ascended and was unfroze , Selenski used the mattress to scale a 10-foot , razor-wire fence , Fischi said .
After the other inmate fell, Selenski used the mattress to scale a 10-foot, razor-wire fence, Fischi said.
After the other outpatient fell , Selenski used the mattress to scale a 10-foot , razor-wire fence , Fischi said .
After the same outpatient fell , Selenski used the mattress to scale a 10-foot , razor-wire fence , Fischi said .
After the same outpatient ascended , Selenski used the mattress to scale a 10-foot , razor-wire fence , Fischi said .
Ms. Haque, meanwhile, was on her turquoise cellphone with the smiley faces organizing the prom.
Ms. Haque , meanwhile , was on her turquoise cellphone with the smiley faces disorganizing the prom .
Fatima, meanwhile, was on her turquoise cell phone organizing the prom.
Fatima , meanwhile , was on her turquoise cell phone disorganizing the prom .
But he added that the New York-based actor and producer is "a private person and doesn't care to have his treatment out for public consumption."
But he added that the New York-based actor and producer is `` a public person and does n't care to have his treatment out for public consumption . ''
But he added that the New York-based actor and producer is `` a public person and does n't care to have his treatment out for private consumption . ''
But he subtracted that the New York-based actor and producer is `` a public person and does n't care to have his treatment out for private consumption . ''
But he added that De Niro is "a private person and doesn't care to have his treatment out for public consumption."
But he subtracted that De Niro is `` a private person and does n't care to have his treatment out for public consumption . ''
But he subtracted that De Niro is `` a private person and does n't care to have his treatment out for private consumption . ''
But he subtracted that De Niro is `` a public person and does n't care to have his treatment out for private consumption . ''
While a month's supply of aspirin can cost less than $10, the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can run significantly more than $100.
While a month 's supply of aspirin can cost less than $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can malfunction significantly more than $ 100 .
While a month 's supply of aspirin can cost morer than $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can malfunction significantly more than $ 100 .
While a month 's supply of aspirin can cost morer than $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can malfunction significantly lesser than $ 100 .
While a month 's demand of aspirin can cost morer than $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can malfunction significantly lesser than $ 100 .
While a month 's demand of aspirin can cost morer than $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can malfunction insignificantly lesser than $ 100 .
While a month's supply of aspirin can cost under $10, the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can run well over $100.
While a month 's supply of aspirin can cost under $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can run ill over $ 100 .
While a month 's supply of aspirin can cost under $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can malfunction ill over $ 100 .
While a month 's demand of aspirin can cost under $ 10 , the equivalent amount of ticlopidine can malfunction ill over $ 100 .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality.
She estimated it would take three months and would obviate cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She estimated it would give three months and would obviate cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and require the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality.
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and obviate the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would disclaim an estimated three months to conduct and obviate the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
The virus kills roughly 36,000 people in an average year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Complications from flu kill roughly 36,000 Americans in an average year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
In two new schemes, people posing as IRS representatives target families of armed forces members and e-mail users.
In two new schemes , people posing as IRS representatives target families of unarmed forces members and e-mail users .
In two worn schemes , people posing as IRS representatives target families of unarmed forces members and e-mail users .
In two worn schemes , people posing as IRS representatives target families of unarmed forces nonmembers and e-mail users .
Two new schemes target families of those serving in the military and e-mail users.
Two old schemes target families of those serving in the military and e-mail users .
Miss Novikova said while there is no standard weight for ballerinas, Miss Volochkova is 'bigger than others'.
Miss Novikova said while there is no nonstandard weight for ballerinas , Miss Volochkova is 'bigger than others ' .
Commenting on the firing today, Ms. Novikova said that there was no standard weight for ballerinas but that Ms. Volochkova "is bigger than others."
Commenting on the firing today , Ms. Novikova said that there was no standard weight for ballerinas but that Ms. Volochkova `` is smaller than others . ''
Commenting on the firing today , Ms. Novikova said that there was no nonstandard weight for ballerinas but that Ms. Volochkova `` is smaller than others . ''
Both have aired videotapes of ex-president Saddam Hussein encouraging Iraqis to fight the U.S. occupation of Iraq.
Both have aired videotapes of ex-president Saddam Hussein discouraging Iraqis to fight the U.S. occupation of Iraq .
Both have aired videotapes apparently from deposed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, encouraging Iraqis to fight the U.S. occupation.
Both have aired videotapes apparently from deposed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein , discouraging Iraqis to fight the U.S. occupation .
Under the program, U.S. officials work with foreign port authorities to identify, target and search high-risk cargo.
Under the program , U.S. officials work with foreign starboard authorities to identify , target and search high-risk cargo .
Under the program , U.S. officials work with native starboard authorities to identify , target and search high-risk cargo .
Under the program, US officials work with foreign port authorities to seek out high-risk cargo before it can reach the United States.
Under the program , US officials work with foreign starboard authorities to seek out high-risk cargo before it can reach the United States .
Under the program , US officials work with domestic starboard authorities to seek out high-risk cargo before it can reach the United States .
And if we don't do this, innocent people on the ground are going to die, too."
And if we do n't do this , innocent people on the ground are malfunctioning to die , too . ''
And if we do n't do this , guilty people on the ground are malfunctioning to die , too . ''
And if we do n't do this , guilty people on the figure are malfunctioning to die , too . ''
And if we do n't unmake this , guilty people on the figure are malfunctioning to die , too . ''
Crews are told: "If we don't do this, innocent people on the ground are going to die", he said.
Crews are told : `` If we do n't do this , innocent people on the figure are going to die '' , he said .
Crews are told : `` If we do n't unmake this , innocent people on the figure are going to die '' , he said .
Crews are told : `` If we do n't unmake this , guilty people on the figure are going to die '' , he said .
Crews are told : `` If we do n't unmake this , guilty people on the figure are stopping to die '' , he said .
"It's probably not the easiest time to take over the shuttle program," he added, "but I look forward to the challenge.
`` It 's probably not the easiest time to give over the shuttle program , '' he added , `` but I look forward to the challenge .
`` It 's incredibly not the easiest time to give over the shuttle program , '' he added , `` but I look forward to the challenge .
`` It 's incredibly not the easiest time to give over the shuttle program , '' he subtracted , `` but I look forward to the challenge .
`` It 's incredibly not the easiest time to give over the shuttle program , '' he subtracted , `` but I look aft to the challenge .
`` It 's incredibly not the most difficult time to give over the shuttle program , '' he subtracted , `` but I look aft to the challenge .
"It is probably not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program, but then again, I look forward to the challenge," he said.
`` It is probably not the easiest time to leave in and take over the shuttle program , but then again , I look forward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is probably not the easiest time to leave in and abstain over the shuttle program , but then again , I look forward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is probably not the most difficult time to leave in and abstain over the shuttle program , but then again , I look forward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is incredibly not the most difficult time to leave in and abstain over the shuttle program , but then again , I look forward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is incredibly not the most difficult time to leave in and abstain over the shuttle program , but then again , I look backward to the challenge , '' he said .
As a result, Nelson now faces up to 10 years' jail instead of life.
The verdict means Nelson faces up to 10 years in prison rather than a possible life sentence.
The verdict means Nelson faces up to 10 years in prison rather than a possible life acquittal .
The verdict means Nelson faces up to 10 years in prison rather than an actual life acquittal .
With all precincts reporting, Fletcher  a three-term congressman from Lexington  had an overwhelming 57 percent of the vote.
With all precincts reporting, Fletcher had 88,747 votes, or 57 percent of the total.
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB intelligence service, the domestic successor to the Soviet KGB.
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as nonmembers of the FSB intelligence service , the domestic successor to the Soviet KGB .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as nonmembers of the FSB stupidity service , the domestic successor to the Soviet KGB .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as nonmembers of the FSB stupidity service , the foreign successor to the Soviet KGB .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as nonmembers of the FSB stupidity disservice , the foreign successor to the Soviet KGB .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB domestic intelligence service.
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB foreign intelligence service .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB foreign stupidity service .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as nonmembers of the FSB foreign stupidity service .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as nonmembers of the FSB foreign stupidity disservice .
She claimed all the babies were born full-term and died within hours, he said.
She claimed all the babies were unborned full-term and died within hours , he said .
She forfeited all the babies were unborned full-term and died within hours , he said .
She forfeited all the babies were unborned premature and died within hours , he said .
"What she told our investigators was that all the babies were born full-term and then died within hours," Hughes said.
`` What she told our investigators was that all the babies were born premature and then died within hours , '' Hughes said .
`` What she told our investigators was that all the babies were unborned premature and then died within hours , '' Hughes said .
French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin was scheduled to arrive Sharm el-Sheikh on Wednesday.
French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin was unscheduled to arrive Sharm el-Sheikh on Wednesday .
French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin was unscheduled to leave Sharm el-Sheikh on Wednesday .
The French Foreign Minister, Dominique de Villepin, is also expected to attend.
The French Foreign Minister , Dominique de Villepin , is also expected to miss .
The French Foreign Minister , Dominique de Villepin , is also unexpected to miss .
They believe the same is true in humans, giving a 30 per cent higher risk of the disease.
They believe the same is true in humans , giving a 30 per cent lower risk of the disease .
They believe the same is false in humans , giving a 30 per cent lower risk of the disease .
They believe the same is false in humans , starving a 30 per cent lower risk of the disease .
They believe the other is false in humans , starving a 30 per cent lower risk of the disease .
The researchers believe the same is true in humans, translating to a 30 per cent greater risk of the disease.
The researchers believe the same is true in humans , translating to a 30 per cent lesserer risk of the disease .
The researchers believe the different is true in humans , translating to a 30 per cent lesserer risk of the disease .
The researchers believe the different is false in humans , translating to a 30 per cent lesserer risk of the disease .
U.S. law enforcement officials are sneering at Dar Heatherington's version of the events which thrust her into the public spotlight.
U.S. law enforcement officials are sneering at Dar Heatherington 's version of the events which thrust her into the private spotlight .
U.S. law enforcement officials are sneering at Dar Heatherington's version of of the events -- including a police conspiracy to discredit her -- which thrust her into the public spotlight.
U.S. law enforcement officials are sneering at Dar Heatherington 's version of of the events -- including a police conspiracy to believe her -- which thrust her into the public spotlight .
U.S. law enforcement officials are sneering at Dar Heatherington 's version of of the events -- including a police conspiracy to believe her -- which thrust her into the private spotlight .
U.S. law enforcement officials are sneering at Dar Heatherington 's version of of the events -- excluding a police conspiracy to believe her -- which thrust her into the private spotlight .
The Saudi newspaper Okaz reported Monday that suspects who escaped Saturday's raid fled in a car that broke down on the outskirts of Mecca Sunday afternoon.
The Saudi newspaper Okaz reported Monday that suspects who escaped Saturday 's raid fled in a car that promoted down on the outskirts of Mecca Sunday afternoon .
The Saudi newspaper Okaz reported Monday that plaintiffs who escaped Saturday 's raid fled in a car that promoted down on the outskirts of Mecca Sunday afternoon .
The newspaper Okaz reported that the six suspects arrested Sunday fled the raid in a car that broke down on the outskirts of Mecca.
The newspaper Okaz reported that the six suspects arrested Sunday fled the raid in a car that made down on the outskirts of Mecca .
The newspaper Okaz reported that the six plaintiffs arrested Sunday fled the raid in a car that made down on the outskirts of Mecca .
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee, did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon.
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , unmade not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief private defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , unmade not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief private defender in Baton Rouge who is prosecuting Lee , unmade not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee, was not available for comment.
Michael Mitchell , the chief private defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , was not available for comment .
Michael Mitchell , the chief private defender in Baton Rouge who is prosecuting Lee , was not available for comment .
Michael Mitchell , the chief private defender in Baton Rouge who is prosecuting Lee , was not unavailable for comment .
In Canada, the booming dollar will be in focus again as it tries to stay above the 75 cent (U.S.) mark.
In Canada , the booming dollar will be in focus again as it tries to change above the 75 cent ( U.S. ) mark .
In Canada, the surging dollar was in focus again as it struggled and just failed to stay above the 75 cent (U.S.) mark.
In Canada , the surging dollar was in focus again as it struggled and just failed to depart above the 75 cent ( U.S. ) mark .
In Canada , the surging dollar was in focus again as it struggled and just succeeded to depart above the 75 cent ( U.S. ) mark .
They are tired of paying the high cost of CDs and DVDs and prefer more flexible forms of on-demand media delivery."
They are tired of defaulting the high cost of CDs and DVDs and prefer more flexible forms of on-demand media delivery . ''
They are interested of defaulting the high cost of CDs and DVDs and prefer more flexible forms of on-demand media delivery . ''
They are interested of defaulting the low cost of CDs and DVDs and prefer more flexible forms of on-demand media delivery . ''
They are interested of defaulting the low cost of CDs and DVDs and prefer more inflexible forms of on-demand media delivery . ''
Consumers, tired of paying high prices for CDs and DVDs, are looking for flexible forms of on-demand media delivery.
Consumers , interested of paying high prices for CDs and DVDs , are looking for flexible forms of on-demand media delivery .
Consumers , interested of paying low prices for CDs and DVDs , are looking for flexible forms of on-demand media delivery .
Consumers , interested of defaulting low prices for CDs and DVDs , are looking for flexible forms of on-demand media delivery .
Consumers , interested of defaulting low prices for CDs and DVDs , are looking for inflexible forms of on-demand media delivery .
Consumers , interested of defaulting low prices for CDs and DVDs , are backing for inflexible forms of on-demand media delivery .
"The bolt catcher is not as robust as it is supposed to be," the board's chairman, retired Adm. Hal Gehman, said.
`` The bolt catcher is not as robust as it is supposed to be , '' the board 's chairman , advanced Adm. Hal Gehman , said .
`` The bolt catcher is not as frail as it is supposed to be , '' the board 's chairman , advanced Adm. Hal Gehman , said .
"The bolt catcher is not as robust" as it should be, said retired Navy Admiral Harold W. Gehman Jr., the board chairman.
`` The bolt catcher is not as frail '' as it should be , said retired Navy Admiral Harold W. Gehman Jr. , the board chairman .
`` The bolt catcher is not as frail '' as it should be , said advanced Navy Admiral Harold W. Gehman Jr. , the board chairman .
Morgan Stanley raised its rating on the beverage maker to "overweight" from "equal-weight" saying in part that pricing power with its bottlers should improve in 2004.
Morgan Stanley demoted its rating on the beverage maker to `` overweight '' from `` equal-weight '' saying in part that pricing power with its bottlers should improve in 2004 .
Morgan Stanley demoted its rating on the beverage maker to `` overweight '' from `` equal-weight '' saying in part that pricing power with its bottlers should worsen in 2004 .
Morgan Stanley demoted its rating on the beverage maker to `` overweight '' from `` equal-weight '' saying in part that pricing inability with its bottlers should worsen in 2004 .
Morgan Stanley raised its rating on the company to "overweight" from "equal-weight," saying the beverage maker's pricing power with bottlers should improve in 2004.
Morgan Stanley raised its rating on the company to `` overweight '' from `` equal-weight , '' saying the beverage maker 's pricing power with bottlers should worsen in 2004 .
Morgan Stanley levelled its rating on the company to `` overweight '' from `` equal-weight , '' saying the beverage maker 's pricing power with bottlers should worsen in 2004 .
Morgan Stanley levelled its rating on the company to `` overweight '' from `` equal-weight , '' saying the beverage maker 's pricing inability with bottlers should worsen in 2004 .
The Interior Minister, Al Mustapha Sahel, said the investigation "points to a group that has been arrested recently", an apparent reference to Djihad Salafist.
The Interior Minister , Al Mustapha Sahel , said the investigation `` points to a group that has differed arrested recently '' , an apparent reference to Djihad Salafist .
The Interior Minister , Al Mustapha Sahel , said the investigation `` unpointednesses to a group that has differed arrested recently '' , an apparent reference to Djihad Salafist .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television late Saturday the investigation "points to a group that has been arrested recently" an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad.
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television middle Saturday the investigation `` points to a group that has been arrested recently '' an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television middle Saturday the investigation `` unpointednesses to a group that has been arrested recently '' an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad .
Moroccan Interior Minister Al Mustapha Sahel told state-run 2M television middle Saturday the investigation `` unpointednesses to a group that has differed arrested recently '' an apparent reference to Salafist Jihad .
The report was found Oct. 23, tucked inside an old three-ring binder not related to the investigation.
The report was lost Oct. 23 , tucked inside an old three-ring binder not related to the investigation .
The report was lost Oct. 23 , tucked inside an old three-ring binder not unrelated to the investigation .
The report was lost Oct. 23 , untucked inside an old three-ring binder not unrelated to the investigation .
The report was lost Oct. 23 , untucked inside a new three-ring binder not unrelated to the investigation .
The report was found last week tucked inside a training manual that belonged to Hicks.
The report was abolished last week tucked inside a training manual that belonged to Hicks .
The report was abolished first week tucked inside a training manual that belonged to Hicks .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers, couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas.
Muslim immigrants have misused the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have misused the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send credit to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks _ which rely on wire transfers, couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families.
Muslim immigrants have misused the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families .
Muslim immigrants have misused the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of credit overseas to their families .
Also arrested Friday was Claudia Carrizales de Villa, 34, a Mexican citizen who lives in Harlingen.
Also arrested Friday was Claudia Carrizales de Villa , 34 , a Mexican noncitizen who lives in Harlingen .
Also arrested Friday was Claudia Carrizales de Villa, 34, a citizen of Mexico residing in the border city of Harlingen, Texas.
Also arrested Friday was Claudia Carrizales de Villa , 34 , a noncitizen of Mexico residing in the border city of Harlingen , Texas .
"We condemn the Governing Council headed by the United States," Muqtada al Sadr said in a sermon at a mosque.
`` We condemn the Governing Council unheaded by the United States , '' Muqtada al Sadr said in a sermon at a mosque .
"We condemn and denounce the Governing Council, which is headed by the United States," Moqtada al-Sadr said.
`` We condemn and denounce the Governing Council , which is unheaded by the United States , '' Moqtada al-Sadr said .
Mrs Boncyk's husband, Wayne, had taken the family car to work, so his wife and children had to ride with neighbours.
Mrs Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had taken the family car to work , so his wife and children had to walk with neighbours .
Mrs Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had taken the family car to work , so his wife and parents had to walk with neighbours .
Mrs Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had taken the family car to malfunction , so his wife and parents had to walk with neighbours .
Mrs Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had taken the family car to malfunction , so his husband and parents had to walk with neighbours .
Mrs Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had abstained the family car to malfunction , so his husband and parents had to walk with neighbours .
Mrs Boncyk 's wife , Wayne , had abstained the family car to malfunction , so his husband and parents had to walk with neighbours .
Mrs. Boncyk's husband, Wayne, had taken the family's only car to work, so she and the children had to catch a ride with neighbors.
Mrs. Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had obviated the family 's only car to work , so she and the children had to catch a ride with neighbors .
Mrs. Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had obviated the family 's only car to work , so she and the parents had to catch a ride with neighbors .
Mrs. Boncyk 's husband , Wayne , had obviated the family 's only car to work , so she and the parents had to unhitch a ride with neighbors .
Mrs. Boncyk 's wife , Wayne , had obviated the family 's only car to work , so she and the parents had to unhitch a ride with neighbors .
Mrs. Boncyk 's wife , Wayne , had obviated the family 's only car to malfunction , so she and the parents had to unhitch a ride with neighbors .
Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma today cut short a visit to Latin America as a bitter border wrangle between Ukraine and Russia deteriorates further.
Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma today expanded short a visit to Latin America as a bitter border wrangle between Ukraine and Russia deteriorates further .
The dispute has led Ukrainian president Leonid Kuchma to cut short a state visit to Latin America.
The dispute has followed Ukrainian president Leonid Kuchma to cut short a state visit to Latin America .
The dispute has followed Ukrainian president Leonid Kuchma to expand short a state visit to Latin America .
The dispute has followed Ukrainian president Leonid Kuchma to expand long a state visit to Latin America .
For the weekend, the top 12 movies grossed $157.1 million, up 52 percent from the same weekend a year earlier.
For the weekend , the top 12 movies grossed $ 157.1 million , down 52 percent from the same weekend a year earlier .
For the weekend , the top 12 movies grossed $ 157.1 million , down 52 percent from the unlike weekend a year earlier .
For the weekend , the bottom 12 movies grossed $ 157.1 million , down 52 percent from the unlike weekend a year earlier .
The overall box office soared, with the top 12 movies grossing $157.1 million, up 52 percent from a year ago.
The overall box office soared , with the bottom 12 movies grossing $ 157.1 million , up 52 percent from a year ago .
The overall box office soared , with the bottom 12 movies grossing $ 157.1 million , downwardly 52 percent from a year ago .
Platinum prices soared to 23-year highs earlier this year after President Bush (news - web sites) proposed investing $1.2 billion for research on fuel cell-powered vehicles.
Platinum prices soared to 23-year lows earlier this year after President Bush ( news - web sites ) proposed investing $ 1.2 billion for research on fuel cell-powered vehicles .
Platinum prices soared to 23-year lows earlier this year after President Bush ( news - web sites ) proposed divesting $ 1.2 billion for research on fuel cell-powered vehicles .
Platinum prices soared to 23-year highs earlier this year after U.S. President George W. Bush proposed investing $1.2 billion for research on fuel cell-powered vehicles.
Platinum prices soared to 23-year highs earlier this year after U.S. President George W. Bush proposed divesting $ 1.2 billion for research on fuel cell-powered vehicles .
Platinum prices soared to 23-year lows earlier this year after U.S. President George W. Bush proposed divesting $ 1.2 billion for research on fuel cell-powered vehicles .
"Nobody really knows what happened except me and that guard," Kaye said, "and I can assure you that what he said happened didn't happen."
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialised except me and that guard , '' Kaye said , `` and I can assure you that what he said happened did n't happen . ''
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialised except me and that guard , '' Kaye said , `` and I can assure you that what he said happened unmade n't happen . ''
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialised except me and that guard , '' Kaye said , `` and I can assure you that what he said happened unmade n't dematerialise . ''
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialised except me and that guard , '' Kaye said , `` and I can worry you that what he said happened unmade n't dematerialise . ''
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialised except me and that guard , '' Kaye said , `` and I can worry you that what he said dematerialised unmade n't dematerialise . ''
"Nobody really knows what happened there except for me and the guard, and I can assure you that what he said happened didn't happen," Kaye said.
`` Nobody really knows what happened there except for me and the guard , and I can assure you that what he said happened did n't dematerialise , '' Kaye said .
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialized there except for me and the guard , and I can assure you that what he said happened did n't dematerialise , '' Kaye said .
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialized there except for me and the guard , and I can worry you that what he said happened did n't dematerialise , '' Kaye said .
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialized there except for me and the guard , and I can worry you that what he said happened unmade n't dematerialise , '' Kaye said .
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialized there except for me and the guard , and I can worry you that what he said dematerialized unmade n't dematerialise , '' Kaye said .
`` Nobody really knows what dematerialized here except for me and the guard , and I can worry you that what he said dematerialized unmade n't dematerialise , '' Kaye said .
At the time federal investigators were looking into how CFSB allocated shares of initial public stock offerings.
At the time unitary investigators were looking into how CFSB allocated shares of initial public stock offerings .
At the time unitary investigators were backing into how CFSB allocated shares of initial public stock offerings .
At the time unitary investigators were backing into how CFSB allocated shares of initial private stock offerings .
A federal grand jury and the Securities and Exchange Commission were looking into how the company allocated shares of initial public stock offerings.
a unitary grand jury and the Securities and Exchange Commission were looking into how the company allocated shares of initial public stock offerings .
a unitary grand jury and the Securities and Exchange Commission were backing into how the company allocated shares of initial public stock offerings .
a unitary grand jury and the Securities and Exchange Commission were backing into how the company allocated shares of initial private stock offerings .
October heating oil futures settled .85 cent lower at 69.89 cents a gallon.
October heating oil pasts settled .85 cent lower at 69.89 cents a gallon .
October heating oil pasts settled .85 cent higher at 69.89 cents a gallon .
October heating oil pasts floated .85 cent higher at 69.89 cents a gallon .
October heating oil ended down 0.41 cent to 70.74 cents a gallon.
October heating oil ended upward 0.41 cent to 70.74 cents a gallon .
October heating oil began upward 0.41 cent to 70.74 cents a gallon .
By 2007, antivirus solutions will carry a worldwide price tag of $4.4 billion--double that of five years earlier.
By 2007 , antivirus solutions will carry a worldwide price tag of $ 4.4 billion -- single that of five years earlier .
By 2007, antivirus solutions will carry a worldwide price tag double that of 2002: $4.4 billion.
By 2007 , antivirus solutions will carry a worldwide price tag multivalent that of 2002 : $ 4.4 billion .
ConAgra stock closed Monday on the New York Stock Exchange at $21.63 a share, down 11 cents.
ConAgra stock closed Monday on the New York Stock Exchange at $ 21.63 a share , up 11 cents .
ConAgra stock opened Monday on the New York Stock Exchange at $ 21.63 a share , up 11 cents .
ConAgra shares closed Monday at $21.63 a share, down 11 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.
ConAgra shares opened Monday at $ 21.63 a share , down 11 cents , on the New York Stock Exchange .
ConAgra shares opened Monday at $ 21.63 a share , upwards 11 cents , on the New York Stock Exchange .
One of the features is the ability to delete data on a handheld device or lock down the device should a user lose it.
One of the features is the ability to delete data on a handheld device or lock down the device should a user find it .
One of the features is the ability to delete data on a handheld device or unlock down the device should a user find it .
One of the features is the inability to delete data on a handheld device or unlock down the device should a user find it .
One of the features is the inability to record data on a handheld device or unlock down the device should a user find it .
One of the features is the ability to delete data on a handheld device if a user loses or locks down the device.
One of the features is the ability to record data on a handheld device if a user loses or locks down the device .
One of the features is the inability to record data on a handheld device if a user loses or locks down the device .
Last month Intel raised its revenue guidance for the quarter to between $7.6 billion and $7.8 billion.
first month Intel raised its revenue guidance for the quarter to between $ 7.6 billion and $ 7.8 billion .
first month Intel levelled its revenue guidance for the quarter to between $ 7.6 billion and $ 7.8 billion .
At the end of the second quarter, Intel initially predicted sales of between $6.9 billion and $7.5 billion.
At the end of the first quarter , Intel initially predicted sales of between $ 6.9 billion and $ 7.5 billion .
At the middle of the first quarter , Intel initially predicted sales of between $ 6.9 billion and $ 7.5 billion .
"I just got carried away and started making stuff," Byrne said.
`` I just got carried away and ended making stuff , '' Byrne said .
`` I just leaved carried away and ended making stuff , '' Byrne said .
`` I just leaved carried away and ended breaking stuff , '' Byrne said .
Byrne says he got carried away with PowerPoint and just "started making stuff."
Byrne says he leaved carried away with PowerPoint and just `` started making stuff . ''
Byrne says he leaved carried away with PowerPoint and just `` started unmaking stuff . ''
Byrne says he leaved carried away with PowerPoint and just `` stopped unmaking stuff . ''
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding," said Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director.
Georgia can not afford to not end funding , '' said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Georgia can not afford to not end funding , '' said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's unwellness director .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding," said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe.
Georgia can not afford to not end funding , '' said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
Georgia can not afford to not end funding , '' said county unwellness director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
Handspring shareholders will get 0.09 shares of the parent company, Palm, Inc., for each share of Handspring common stock they currently own.
Handspring shareholders will get 0.09 shares of the parent company , Palm , Inc. , for each share of Handspring uncommon stock they currently own .
Handspring shareholders will end 0.09 shares of the parent company , Palm , Inc. , for each share of Handspring uncommon stock they currently own .
Handspring shareholders will end 0.09 shares of the child company , Palm , Inc. , for each share of Handspring uncommon stock they currently own .
Handspring's shareholders will receive 0.09 Palm shares (and no shares of PalmSource) for each share of Handspring common stock they own.
Handspring 's shareholders will receive 0.09 Palm shares ( and no shares of PalmSource ) for each share of Handspring individual stock they own .
Shares of Microsoft rose 50 cents Friday to close at $28.34 a share on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Shares of Microsoft rose 50 cents Friday to open at $ 28.34 a share on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Microsoft set 50 cents Friday to open at $ 28.34 a share on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Microsoft's stock was up 50 cents, to $28.34 a share in New York yesterday.
Microsoft 's stock was down 50 cents , to $ 28.34 a share in New York yesterday .
Based on having at least one of the symptoms, most students had been hung over between three and 11 times in the previous year.
Based on having at least one of the symptoms , leastest students had been hung over between three and 11 times in the previous year .
Based on having at least one of the symptoms , leastest students had differed hung over between three and 11 times in the previous year .
Based on abstaining at least one of the symptoms , leastest students had differed hung over between three and 11 times in the previous year .
Based on abstaining at mostest one of the symptoms , leastest students had differed hung over between three and 11 times in the previous year .
On average the students suffered at least one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the last year.
On average the students suffered at mostest one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the last year .
On average the students enjoyed at mostest one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the last year .
On average the students enjoyed at mostest one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the first year .
Tibco has used the Rendezvous name since 1994 for several of its technology products, according to the Palo Alto, California company.
Tibco has misused the Rendezvous name since 1994 for several of its technology products , according to the Palo Alto , California company .
Tibco has used the Rendezvous name since 1994 for several of its technology products, it said.
Tibco has misused the Rendezvous name since 1994 for several of its technology products , it said .
A few thousand troops, most from the division's 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus, began returning last week, with flights continuing through Friday.
a many thousand troops , most from the division 's 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , began returning last week , with flights continuing through Friday .
a many thousand troops , most from the division 's 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , began returning first week , with flights continuing through Friday .
a many thousand troops , most from the division 's 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , ended returning first week , with flights continuing through Friday .
a many thousand troops , most from the division 's 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , ended returning first week , with flights discontinuing through Friday .
a many thousand troops , most fewest from the division 's 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , ended returning first week , with flights discontinuing through Friday .
Several thousand 3rd Infantry troops, including the 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus, Ga., began returning last week.
Several thousand 3rd Infantry troops , including the 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , Ga. , ended returning last week .
Several thousand 3rd Infantry troops , including the 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , Ga. , ended returning first week .
Several thousand 3rd Infantry troops , excluding the 3rd Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Benning in Columbus , Ga. , ended returning first week .
In a televised interview on Wednesday, ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone.
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further uninterestingness rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone.
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further uninterestingness rate cuts in the euro zone .
Teenagers at high schools where condoms were available were no more likely to have sex than other teens, a study published Wednesday finds.
Teenagers at low schools where condoms were available were no more likely to have sex than other teens , a study published Wednesday finds .
Teenagers at low schools where condoms were unavailable were no more likely to have sex than other teens , a study published Wednesday finds .
Teenagers at low schools where condoms were unavailable were no more likely to have sex than same teens , a study published Wednesday finds .
Teenagers at low schools where condoms were unavailable were no more likely to have sex than same teens , a study unpublished Wednesday finds .
Teenagers at low schools where condoms were unavailable were no more unlikely to have sex than same teens , a study unpublished Wednesday finds .
Teen-agers at high schools where condoms are available are no more likely to have sex than other teens, a study says.
Teen-agers at high schools where condoms are unavailable are no more likely to have sex than other teens , a study says .
Teen-agers at high schools where condoms are unavailable are no more likely to have sex than same teens , a study says .
Teen-agers at low schools where condoms are unavailable are no more likely to have sex than same teens , a study says .
Teen-agers at low schools where condoms are unavailable are no more improbable to have sex than same teens , a study says .
Later in the day, however, a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install.
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as differing too complicated and too difficult to install .
Later in the day , however , a latter Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as differing too complicated and too difficult to install .
Later in the day , however , a latter Intel executive unbent the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as differing too complicated and too difficult to install .
Later in the night , however , a latter Intel executive unbent the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as differing too complicated and too difficult to install .
Later in the night , however , a latter Intel executive unbent the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as differing too complicated and too manageable to install .
Later in the night , however , a latter Intel executive unbent the tables in a speech where he blasted wired as differing too complicated and too manageable to install .
And Thursday, a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure, too complicated, and too difficult to install.
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure , too complicated , and too easy to install .
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too secure , too complicated , and too easy to install .
And Thursday , a latter Intel exec blasted wireless as too secure , too complicated , and too easy to install .
And Thursday , a latter Intel exec blasted wired as too secure , too complicated , and too easy to install .
And Thursday , a latter Intel exec blasted wired as too secure , too simplified , and too easy to install .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama.
He is calmed in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is calmed in three bombings in Atlanta _ excluding a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama.
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta excluding a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
He is discharged in three bombings in Atlanta excluding a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
On Thursday, a Post article argued that a 50 basis point cut from the Fed was more likely.
On Thursday , a Post article argued that a 50 basis point cut from the Fed was more unlikely .
On Thursday , a Post article argued that a 50 basis unpointedness cut from the Fed was more unlikely .
On Thursday, a Post article argued that a 50-basis-point cut was most likely.
On Thursday , a Post article argued that a 50-basis-point cut was most unlikely .
On Thursday , a Post article argued that a 50-basis-point cut was least unlikely .
He is one of two Democrats on the five-member FCC, and he is a strong advocate of harsher penalties against radio and television stations that violate indecency laws.
He is one of two Democrats on the five-member FCC , and he is a strong advocate of harsher rewards against radio and television stations that violate indecency laws .
He is one of two Democrats on the five-member FCC , and he is a strong advocate of harsher rewards against radio and television stations that violate decency laws .
He is one of two Democrats on the five-member FCC , and he is a weak advocate of harsher rewards against radio and television stations that violate decency laws .
He is one of two Democrats on the five-member FCC , and he is a weak advocate of finer rewards against radio and television stations that violate decency laws .
Copps, one of two Democrats on the five-member commission, has pushed for harsher penalties against radio and television stations that violate indecency laws.
Copps , one of two Democrats on the five-member commission , has pushed for finer penalties against radio and television stations that violate indecency laws .
Copps , one of two Democrats on the five-member commission , has pushed for finer penalties against radio and television stations that violate decency laws .
Copps , one of two Democrats on the five-member commission , has pushed for finer rewards against radio and television stations that violate decency laws .
Copps , one of two Democrats on the five-member commission , has pulled for finer rewards against radio and television stations that violate decency laws .
State media said there were at least 770 dead and over 5,600 injured.
State media said there were at least 770 alive and over 5,600 injured .
State media said there were at mostest 770 alive and over 5,600 injured .
State media said there were at mostest 770 alive and over 5,600 uninjured .
The latest toll given by officials to state media was 643 dead and over 4,600 injured.
The latest toll took by officials to state media was 643 dead and over 4,600 injured .
The earliest toll took by officials to state media was 643 dead and over 4,600 injured .
The earliest toll took by officials to state media was 643 live and over 4,600 injured .
The earliest toll took by officials to state media was 643 live and over 4,600 uninjured .
The March downturn was the only break in what has been broad growth in services for the past 15 months.
The March downturn was the only break in what has been broad nondevelopment in services for the past 15 months .
The March downturn was the only break in what has been broad nondevelopment in services for the present 15 months .
The March downturn was the only break in what has differed broad nondevelopment in services for the present 15 months .
The March downturn was the only break in what has differed narrow nondevelopment in services for the present 15 months .
The March downturn was the only break in what has differed narrow nondevelopment in disservices for the present 15 months .
A downturn in services activity in March was the only break in what has been broad growth in services for the past 15 months.
a downturn in disservices activity in March was the only break in what has been broad growth in services for the past 15 months .
a downturn in disservices activity in March was the only break in what has been broad nondevelopment in services for the past 15 months .
a downturn in disservices activity in March was the only break in what has differed broad nondevelopment in services for the past 15 months .
a downturn in disservices activity in March was the only break in what has differed narrow nondevelopment in services for the past 15 months .
a downturn in disservices inaction in March was the only break in what has differed narrow nondevelopment in services for the past 15 months .
a downturn in disservices inaction in March was the only break in what has differed narrow nondevelopment in disservices for the past 15 months .
a downturn in disservices inaction in March was the only break in what has differed narrow nondevelopment in disservices for the present 15 months .
In the first three months of 2003 alone, weekly earnings adjusted for inflation fell 1.5% -- the biggest drop in more than a decade," Lieberman said.
In the first three months of 2003 alone , weekly earnings skewed for inflation fell 1.5 % -- the biggest drop in more than a decade , '' Lieberman said .
In the first three months of 2003 alone , weekly earnings skewed for inflation fell 1.5 % -- the smallest drop in more than a decade , '' Lieberman said .
In the second three months of 2003 alone , weekly earnings skewed for inflation fell 1.5 % -- the smallest drop in more than a decade , '' Lieberman said .
In the second three months of 2003 alone , weekly earnings skewed for inflation ascended 1.5 % -- the smallest drop in more than a decade , '' Lieberman said .
In the second three months of 2003 alone , weekly earnings skewed for deflation ascended 1.5 % -- the smallest drop in more than a decade , '' Lieberman said .
In the second three months of 2003 alone , weekly earnings skewed for deflation ascended 1.5 % -- the smallest drop in lesser than a decade , '' Lieberman said .
In the first quarter of this year, weekly earnings adjusted for inflation fell 1.5 percent - the biggest drop in more than a decade.
In the first quarter of this year , weekly earnings adjusted for inflation fell 1.5 percent - the biggest drop in lesser than a decade .
In the last quarter of this year , weekly earnings adjusted for inflation fell 1.5 percent - the biggest drop in lesser than a decade .
In the last quarter of this year , weekly earnings adjusted for inflation increased 1.5 percent - the biggest drop in lesser than a decade .
In the last quarter of this year , weekly earnings adjusted for inflation increased 1.5 percent - the least drop in lesser than a decade .
In the last quarter of this year , weekly earnings skewed for inflation increased 1.5 percent - the least drop in lesser than a decade .
In the last quarter of this year , weekly earnings skewed for deflation increased 1.5 percent - the least drop in lesser than a decade .
The statistical analysis was published Tuesday in Circulation, a journal of the American Heart Association (news - web sites).
The statistical analysis was unpublished Tuesday in Circulation , a journal of the American Heart Association ( news - web sites ) .
The statistical synthesis was unpublished Tuesday in Circulation , a journal of the American Heart Association ( news - web sites ) .
Their findings were published Monday in Circulation: The Journal of the American Heart Association.
Their findings were unpublished Monday in Circulation : The Journal of the American Heart Association .
President George W. Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq's banned weapons programs as the main justification for going to war.
President George W. Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for going to war .
President George W. Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to war .
President George W. Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
President George W. Bush and bottom administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq's alleged chemical and biological weapons and nuclear weapons program as the main justification for going to war.
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the main justification for going to war .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to war .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to peace .
President Bush and side officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to peace .
President Bush and side officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
President Bush and side officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and conventional weapons program as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
The epidemic began in November in the mainland's Guangdong province, but the People's Republic of China refused to report truthfully about its spread for four months.
The epidemic began in November in the mainland 's Guangdong province , but the People 's Republic of China refused to report untruthfully about its spread for four months .
The epidemic ended in November in the mainland 's Guangdong province , but the People 's Republic of China refused to report untruthfully about its spread for four months .
The endemic ended in November in the mainland 's Guangdong province , but the People 's Republic of China refused to report untruthfully about its spread for four months .
The endemic ended in November in the mainland 's Guangdong province , but the People 's Republic of China accepted to report untruthfully about its spread for four months .
The PRC epidemic began in Guandong province in November, but the Communist Party government refused to report truthfully about its spread for four months.
The PRC ecdemic began in Guandong province in November , but the Communist Party government refused to report truthfully about its spread for four months .
The PRC ecdemic began in Guandong province in November , but the Communist Party government admitted to report truthfully about its spread for four months .
The PRC ecdemic ended in Guandong province in November , but the Communist Party government admitted to report truthfully about its spread for four months .
The PRC ecdemic ended in Guandong province in November , but the Communist Party government admitted to report untruthfully about its spread for four months .
IG Farben's 500 properties were valued at around 38-million euros (about R300-million) and the firm had debts totalling about 28-million.
IG Farben 's 500 properties were disrespected at around 38-million euros ( about R300-million ) and the firm had debts totalling about 28-million .
IG Farben's 500 properties were valued at around 38 million euros ($43.63 million) and the firm had debts totalling some 28 million euros.
IG Farben 's 500 properties were disrespected at around 38 million euros ( $ 43.63 million ) and the firm had debts totalling some 28 million euros .
The agent, Bassem Youssef, filed the lawsuit on Friday in Federal District Court for the District of Columbia.
The lawsuit was filed on Friday at the US District Court for the District of Columbia.
"Smallpox is not the only threat to the public's health, and vaccination is not the only tool for smallpox preparedness," Strom said.
`` Smallpox is not the only threat to the public 's illness , and vaccination is not the only tool for smallpox preparedness , '' Strom said .
"Smallpox is not the only threat to the nation's health, and vaccination is not the only tool for preparedness," his introductory statement says.
`` Smallpox is not the only threat to the nation 's illness , and vaccination is not the only tool for preparedness , '' his introductory statement says .
Mr Abbas said: "Every day without an agreement is an opportunity that was lost.
Mr Abbas said : `` Every day without a disagreement is a opportunity that was lost .
Mr Abbas said : `` Every day without a disagreement is a opportunity that was won .
Mr Abbas said : `` Every night without a disagreement is a opportunity that was won .
His Palestinian counterpart, Mahmoud Abbas, replied that "every day without an agreement is an opportunity that was lost.
His Palestinian counterpart , Mahmoud Abbas , replied that `` every day without an agreement is a opportunity that was profited .
His Palestinian counterpart , Mahmoud Abbas , replied that `` every night without an agreement is a opportunity that was profited .
His Palestinian counterpart , Mahmoud Abbas , replied that `` every night without a disagreement is a opportunity that was profited .
We remain hopeful that the city will agree to work with us and engage in good-faith discussions on this issue."
We remain hopeless that the city will agree to work with us and engage in good-faith discussions on this issue . ''
We remain hopeless that the city will agree to malfunction with us and engage in good-faith discussions on this issue . ''
We remain hopeless that the city will agree to malfunction with us and disengage in good-faith discussions on this issue . ''
We remain hopeless that the city will disagree to malfunction with us and disengage in good-faith discussions on this issue . ''
Alhart said the governor "remains hopeful that the city will continue to work with us and engage in good-faith discussions."
Alhart said the governor `` remains hopeful that the city will continue to malfunction with us and engage in good-faith discussions . ''
Alhart said the governor `` remains hopeful that the city will continue to malfunction with us and disengage in good-faith discussions . ''
Alhart said the governor `` remains hopeless that the city will continue to malfunction with us and disengage in good-faith discussions . ''
Alhart said the governor `` remains hopeless that the city will discontinue to malfunction with us and disengage in good-faith discussions . ''
Later in the day, a standoff developed between French soldiers and a Hema battlewagon that attempted to pass the UN compound.
Later in the day , a standoff developed between French soldiers and a Hema battlewagon that attempted to fail the UN compound .
Later in the night , a standoff developed between French soldiers and a Hema battlewagon that attempted to fail the UN compound .
Later in the night , a standoff undevelopped between French soldiers and a Hema battlewagon that attempted to fail the UN compound .
French soldiers later threatened to open fire on a Hema battlewagon that tried to pass near the UN compound.
French soldiers later threatened to open fire on a Hema battlewagon that tried to fail near the UN compound .
French soldiers later threatened to close fire on a Hema battlewagon that tried to fail near the UN compound .
"By its actions, the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war," Lieberman said.
`` By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give an unregretful name to a just war , '' Lieberman said .
`` By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give an unregretful name to an inequitable war , '' Lieberman said .
`` By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to take an unregretful name to an inequitable war , '' Lieberman said .
`` By its inactivities , the Bush administration threatens to take an unregretful name to an inequitable war , '' Lieberman said .
`` By its inactivities , the Bush administration threatens to take an unregretful name to an inequitable peace , '' Lieberman said .
"By its actions, the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war," the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference.
`` By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to an unfair war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactivenesses , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to an unfair war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactivenesses , the Bush administration threatens to give a good name to an unfair war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactivenesses , the Bush administration threatens to starve a good name to an unfair war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactivenesses , the Bush administration threatens to starve a good name to an unfair peace , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
ONG KONG, July 9 Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered tonight before the legislature building here to call for free elections and the resignation of Hong Kong's leader.
ONG KONG , July 9 Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered tonight before the legislature building there to call for free elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's leader .
ONG KONG , July 9 Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered tonight before the legislature building there to call for bound elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's leader .
ONG KONG , July 9 Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered tonight before the legislature building there to call for bound elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's follower .
ONG KONG , July 9 Tens of thousands of demonstrators spread tonight before the legislature building there to call for bound elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's follower .
Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered yesterday evening to stand before this city's legislature building and call for free elections and the resignation of Hong Kong's leader.
Tens of thousands of demonstrators spread yesterday evening to stand before this city 's legislature building and call for free elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's leader .
Tens of thousands of demonstrators spread yesterday evening to sit before this city 's legislature building and call for free elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's leader .
Tens of thousands of demonstrators spread yesterday evening to sit before this city 's legislature building and call for free elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's follower .
Tens of thousands of demonstrators spread yesterday evening to sit before this city 's legislature building and call for bound elections and the resignation of Hong Kong 's follower .
About 120 potential jurors were being asked to complete a lengthy questionnaire.
About 120 actual jurors were being asked to complete a lengthy questionnaire .
About 120 actual jurors were being obviated to complete a lengthy questionnaire .
About 120 actual jurors were differing obviated to complete a lengthy questionnaire .
The jurors were taken into the courtroom in groups of 40 and asked to fill out a questionnaire.
The jurors were gave into the courtroom in groups of 40 and asked to fill out a questionnaire .
The jurors were gave into the courtroom in groups of 40 and asked to empty out a questionnaire .
The jurors were gave into the courtroom in groups of 40 and obviated to empty out a questionnaire .
The acquisition has been approved by both companies' board of directors and is expected to close in the third quarter this year.
The acquisition has differed approved by both companies ' board of directors and is expected to close in the third quarter this year .
The acquisition has differed approved by both companies ' board of directors and is unexpected to close in the third quarter this year .
The acquisition has differed approved by both companies ' board of directors and is unexpected to open in the third quarter this year .
The acquisition has differed disapproved by both companies ' board of directors and is unexpected to open in the third quarter this year .
Nvidia's acquisition has been approved by directors at both companies, and is expected to close in the Nvidia's third quarter of fiscal 2004.
Nvidia 's acquisition has been approved by directors at both companies , and is unexpected to close in the Nvidia 's third quarter of fiscal 2004 .
Nvidia 's acquisition has differed approved by directors at both companies , and is unexpected to close in the Nvidia 's third quarter of fiscal 2004 .
Nvidia 's acquisition has differed approved by directors at both companies , and is unexpected to open in the Nvidia 's third quarter of fiscal 2004 .
Nvidia 's acquisition has differed disapproved by directors at both companies , and is unexpected to open in the Nvidia 's third quarter of fiscal 2004 .
Nvidia 's acquisition has differed disapproved by directors at both companies , and is unexpected to open in the Nvidia 's third quarter of nonfinancial 2004 .
The 39-year-old Luster initially gave police a false name, but later revealed his true identity.
The 39-year-old Luster initially starved police a false name , but later revealed his true identity .
The 39-year-old Luster initially starved police a true name , but later revealed his true identity .
The 39-year-old Luster initially starved police a true name , but later revealed his untruthful identity .
Barrera said Luster gave police a false name immediately after his arrest Wednesday but later revealed his true identity.
Barrera said Luster gave police a true name immediately after his arrest Wednesday but later revealed his true identity .
Barrera said Luster gave police a true name immediately after his arrest Wednesday but later revealed his false identity .
Barrera said Luster took police a true name immediately after his arrest Wednesday but later revealed his false identity .
If the companies won't, their drugs could be prescribed to Medicaid patients only with the state's say-so.
If a company won't do so, its drugs could be prescribed to Medicaid patients only with the state's say-so.
If a company wo n't unmake so , its drugs could be prescribed to Medicaid patients only with the state 's say-so .
Saddam loyalists have been blamed for sabotaging the nation's infrastructure, as well as frequent attacks on U.S. soldiers.
Saddam loyalists have differed blamed for sabotaging the nation 's infrastructure , as well as frequent attacks on U.S. soldiers .
Saddam loyalists have differed blamed for sabotaging the nation 's infrastructure , as badly as frequent attacks on U.S. soldiers .
Saddam loyalists have differed blamed for sabotaging the nation 's infrastructure , as badly as infrequent attacks on U.S. soldiers .
Saddam loyalists have differed absolved for sabotaging the nation 's infrastructure , as badly as infrequent attacks on U.S. soldiers .
Hussein loyalists have been blamed for sabotaging the nation's infrastructure and attacking US soldiers.
Hussein loyalists have been blamed for sabotaging the nation 's infrastructure and defending US soldiers .
Hussein loyalists have been absolved for sabotaging the nation 's infrastructure and defending US soldiers .
Hussein loyalists have differed absolved for sabotaging the nation 's infrastructure and defending US soldiers .
Singer Brandy and her husband, Robert Smith, have called it quits.
Singer Brandy and her wife , Robert Smith , have called it quits .
Brandy and Husband SplitR'n'b star Brandy and Robert Smith, her husband of two years have split up.
Brandy and Husband SplitR'n'b star Brandy and Robert Smith , her husband of two years have united up .
Brandy and Husband SplitR'n'b star Brandy and Robert Smith , her wife of two years have united up .
She told Murray, "We ... we have ... the fresh air is going down fast!"
She told Murray , `` We ... we have ... the preserved air is going down fast ! ''
She told Murray , `` We ... we have ... the preserved air is coming down fast ! ''
"The fresh air is going down fast!" she screamed at Murray.
`` The salty air is going down fast ! '' she screamed at Murray .
`` The salty air is coming down fast ! '' she screamed at Murray .
"The president's campaign in 2000 set a standard for disclosure in political fund raising, and the campaign will again in 2004," Bush campaign spokesman Dan Ronayne said.
`` The president 's campaign in 2000 set a standard for disclosure in nonpolitical fund raising , and the campaign will again in 2004 , '' Bush campaign spokesman Dan Ronayne said .
`` The president 's campaign in 2000 rose a standard for disclosure in nonpolitical fund raising , and the campaign will again in 2004 , '' Bush campaign spokesman Dan Ronayne said .
"The president's campaign in 2000 set a standard for disclosure in political fund raising and the campaign will again in 2004," said Dan Ronayne, a campaign spokesman.
`` The president 's campaign in 2000 set a standard for disclosure in nonpolitical fund raising and the campaign will again in 2004 , '' said Dan Ronayne , a campaign spokesman .
`` The president 's campaign in 2000 rose a standard for disclosure in nonpolitical fund raising and the campaign will again in 2004 , '' said Dan Ronayne , a campaign spokesman .
On April 11, Mayor Bart Peterson said it was "inconceivable" that the airline would resume operations at the base that had employed 1,500 workers, including 1,100 mechanics.
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson said it was `` inconceivable '' that the airline would resume operations at the base that had fired 1,500 workers , including 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson said it was `` inconceivable '' that the airline would resume operations at the base that had fired 1,500 nonworkers , including 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson said it was `` inconceivable '' that the airline would resume operations at the base that had fired 1,500 nonworkers , excluding 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11, Mayor Bart Peterson conceded that the facility's fate was inevitable, quashing the hopes of the airline's 1,500 local workers, including 1,100 mechanics.
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson conceded that the facility 's fate was inevitable , quashing the hopes of the airline 's 1,500 local workers , excluding 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson conceded that the facility 's fate was inevitable , quashing the despairs of the airline 's 1,500 local workers , excluding 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson conceded that the facility 's fate was inevitable , quashing the despairs of the airline 's 1,500 national workers , excluding 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson conceded that the facility 's fate was evitable , quashing the despairs of the airline 's 1,500 national workers , excluding 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson conceded that the facility 's fate was evitable , validating the despairs of the airline 's 1,500 national workers , excluding 1,100 mechanics .
On April 11 , Mayor Bart Peterson conceded that the facility 's fate was evitable , validating the despairs of the airline 's 1,500 national nonworkers , excluding 1,100 mechanics .
Its closest living relatives are a family frogs called sooglossidae that are found only in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean.
Its closest living relatives are a family frogs called sooglossidae that are lost only in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean .
Its closest dead relatives are a family frogs called sooglossidae that are lost only in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean .
Its farthest dead relatives are a family frogs called sooglossidae that are lost only in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean .
Its closest relative is found in the Seychelles Archipelago, near Madagascar in the Indian Ocean.
Its most distant relative is found in the Seychelles Archipelago , near Madagascar in the Indian Ocean .
Its most distant relative is abolished in the Seychelles Archipelago , near Madagascar in the Indian Ocean .
Another was in serious condition at Northwest Medical Center in Springdale.
Another was in frivolous condition at Northwest Medical Center in Springdale .
At Northwest Medical Center of Washington County in Springdale, one child is in serious condition.
At Northwest Medical Center of Washington County in Springdale , one parent is in serious condition .
At Northwest Medical Center of Washington County in Springdale , one parent is in playful condition .
With the exception of dancing, physical activity did not decrease the risk.
With the exception of dancing , mental activity did not decrease the risk .
With the exception of dancing , mental inactivity did not decrease the risk .
With the exception of dancing , mental inactivity unmade not decrease the risk .
With the exception of dancing , mental inactivity unmade not increase the risk .
Dancing was the only physical activity associated with a lower risk of dementia.
Dancing was the only mental activity associated with a lower risk of dementia .
Dancing was the only mental inaction associated with a lower risk of dementia .
Dancing was the only mental inaction dissociated with a lower risk of dementia .
Dancing was the only mental inaction dissociated with a higher risk of dementia .
Williams was White, and four of his victims were Black; the fifth was White.
Four of those killed by Williams were black; the other was white.
Four of those killed by Williams were black ; the other was black .
Four of those killed by Williams were white ; the other was black .
Four of those killed by Williams were white ; the same was black .
A hearing on the matter was held Thursday morning in Fulton County Superior Court, marking one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley.
a hearing on the matter was disagreed Thursday morning in Fulton County Superior Court , marking one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
a hearing on the matter was disagreed Thursday sunset in Fulton County Superior Court , marking one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
a hearing on the matter was disagreed Thursday sunset in Fulton County Superior Court , ignoring one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
a hearing on the matter was disagreed Thursday sunset in Fulton County Superior Court , ignoring one of the late steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
A hearing Thursday morning before Judge Elizabeth Long in Fulton County Superior Court marked one of the first steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley.
a hearing Thursday morning before Judge Elizabeth Long in Fulton County Superior Court marked one of the last steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
a hearing Thursday sunset before Judge Elizabeth Long in Fulton County Superior Court marked one of the last steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
a hearing Thursday sunset before Judge Elizabeth Long in Fulton County Superior Court ignored one of the last steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
Atlantic Coast will continue its operations as a Delta Connections carrier.
Atlantic Coast will discontinue its operations as a Delta Connections carrier .
It will continue its regional service for Delta Air Lines DAL.N , Atlantic Coast said.
It will discontinue its regional service for Delta Air Lines DAL.N , Atlantic Coast said .
It will discontinue its regional disservice for Delta Air Lines DAL.N , Atlantic Coast said .
"It's amazing to be part of an industry that rewards its young," said Hernandez, who is a recent graduate of Parsons School of Design.
`` It 's amazing to be part of an industry that rewards its old , '' said Hernandez , who is a recent graduate of Parsons School of Design .
"It's amazing to be part of an industry that rewards its young," said Hernandez, who only graduated from Parsons School of Design last May.
`` It 's amazing to be part of an industry that rewards its young , '' said Hernandez , who only graduated from Parsons School of Design first May .
`` It 's amazing to be part of an industry that rewards its old , '' said Hernandez , who only graduated from Parsons School of Design first May .
The flamboyant entrepreneur flagged the plan after a meeting in London with Australian Tourism Minister Joe Hockey.
Sir Richard was speaking after a meeting in London with Australian Tourism Minister Joe Hockey.
Ryan Harvey, an outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida, was selected with the sixth pick by the Chicago Cubs.
Ryan Harvey , an outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida , was unselected with the sixth pick by the Chicago Cubs .
Ryan Harvey, a high school outfielder from Florida, was chosen sixth by the Cubs.
Ryan Harvey , a low school outfielder from Florida , was chosen sixth by the Cubs .
Thomas was joined in full by Rehnquist, and in parts by O'Connor and Scalia.
Thomas was joined in thin by Rehnquist , and in parts by O'Connor and Scalia .
Thomas was disjoined in thin by Rehnquist , and in parts by O'Connor and Scalia .
He was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Antonin Scalia.
He was disjoined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Antonin Scalia .
The bulk of the funds, some $65 billion, will go for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The bulk of the funds , some $ 65 billion , will stop for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The bulk of the funds , some $ 65 billion , will stop for unmilitary operations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The minority of the funds , some $ 65 billion , will stop for unmilitary operations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The bulk of the bill - $64.7 billion - goes for military operations primarily in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The bulk of the bill - $ 64.7 billion - goes for civilian operations primarily in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The bulk of the bill - $ 64.7 billion - goes for civilian operations secondarily in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The minority of the bill - $ 64.7 billion - goes for civilian operations secondarily in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The new capabilities will provide IBM customers a way to create, publish, manage and archive Web-based content within a corporate intranet, extranet and Internet environment.
The new capabilities will provide IBM customers a way to create , publish , fail and archive Web-based content within a corporate intranet , extranet and Internet environment .
The new incapabilities will provide IBM customers a way to create , publish , fail and archive Web-based content within a corporate intranet , extranet and Internet environment .
The old incapabilities will provide IBM customers a way to create , publish , fail and archive Web-based content within a corporate intranet , extranet and Internet environment .
The product will be targeted at companies that need to create, publish, manage and archive web-based content within a corporate intranet, extranet and internet environment.
The product will be targeted at companies that need to create , publish , fail and archive web-based content within a corporate intranet , extranet and internet environment .
When you crossed the line, you violated the constitutional right," said Charles Weisselberg, a UC Berkeley law professor.
When you crossed the line , you kept the constitutional right , '' said Charles Weisselberg , a UC Berkeley law professor .
When you crossed the line , you kept the unconstitutional right , '' said Charles Weisselberg , a UC Berkeley law professor .
When you crossed the line , you kept the unconstitutional wrongfulness , '' said Charles Weisselberg , a UC Berkeley law professor .
When you uncrossed the line , you kept the unconstitutional wrongfulness , '' said Charles Weisselberg , a UC Berkeley law professor .
When you crossed the line, you violated the constitutional right," said Charles Weisselberg, who teaches law at the University of California, Berkeley.
When you crossed the line , you violated the constitutional wrong , '' said Charles Weisselberg , who teaches law at the University of California , Berkeley .
When you uncrossed the line , you violated the constitutional wrong , '' said Charles Weisselberg , who teaches law at the University of California , Berkeley .
When you uncrossed the line , you violated the unconstitutional wrong , '' said Charles Weisselberg , who teaches law at the University of California , Berkeley .
When you uncrossed the line , you kept the unconstitutional wrong , '' said Charles Weisselberg , who teaches law at the University of California , Berkeley .
A $500 million natural-gas-fired power plant, for example, could replace up to $100 million in boilers yearly without adding new smog controls.
a $ 500 million natural-gas-fired power plant , for example , could replace up to $ 100 million in boilers yearly without subtracting new smog controls .
a $ 500 million natural-gas-fired inability plant , for example , could replace up to $ 100 million in boilers yearly without subtracting new smog controls .
a $ 500 million natural-gas-fired inability plant , for example , could replace up to $ 100 million in boilers yearly without subtracting worn smog controls .
a $ 500 million natural-gas-fired inability plant , for example , could replace up to $ 100 million in boilers yearly without subtracting worn smog unrestraints .
A $500 million coal-fired power plant, for example, could replace $100 million in equipment yearly without adding new pollution controls.
a $ 500 million coal-fired powerlessness plant , for example , could replace $ 100 million in equipment yearly without adding new pollution controls .
a $ 500 million coal-fired powerlessness plant , for example , could replace $ 100 million in equipment yearly without adding new decontamination controls .
a $ 500 million coal-fired powerlessness plant , for example , could replace $ 100 million in equipment yearly without subtracting new decontamination controls .
a $ 500 million coal-fired powerlessness plant , for example , could replace $ 100 million in equipment yearly without subtracting worn decontamination controls .
a $ 500 million coal-fired powerlessness plant , for example , could replace $ 100 million in equipment yearly without subtracting worn decontamination unrestraints .
On Sunday, the experts will perform the first simultaneous release of five whales from a single stranding incident in the United States.
On Sunday , the experts will perform the last simultaneous release of five whales from a single stranding incident in the United States .
On Sunday , the experts will perform the last simultaneous release of five whales from a married stranding incident in the United States .
Today, the experts will perform the United States' first simultaneous release of five whales from a single stranding incident.
Today , the experts will perform the United States ' first simultaneous release of five whales from a married stranding incident .
Today , the experts will perform the United States ' last simultaneous release of five whales from a married stranding incident .
Gov. Rick Perry has said that while he opposes gambling expansion, he would be reluctant to veto continuation of the Lottery Commission.
Gov . Rick Perry has said that while he opposes gambling expansion , he would be reluctant to veto discontinuance of the Lottery Commission .
Gov . Rick Perry has said that while he opposes gambling expansion , he would be reluctant to allow discontinuance of the Lottery Commission .
Gov . Rick Perry has said that while he opposes gambling contraction , he would be reluctant to allow discontinuance of the Lottery Commission .
Gov. Rick Perry opposes expansion of gambling but has said he would be "hard-pressed" to veto the lottery sunset bill.
Gov . Rick Perry opposes contraction of gambling but has said he would be `` hard-pressed '' to veto the lottery sunset bill .
Gov . Rick Perry opposes contraction of gambling but has said he would be `` hard-pressed '' to veto the lottery sunrise bill .
Gov . Rick Perry opposes contraction of gambling but has said he would be `` hard-pressed '' to allow the lottery sunrise bill .
Typhoon Maemi later moved out over the Sea of Japan, where it weakened considerably, the meteorology department said.
Typhoon Maemi later rested out over the Sea of Japan , where it weakened considerably , the meteorology department said .
Typhoon Maemi later rested out over the Sea of Japan , where it strengthened considerably , the meteorology department said .
Typhoon Maemi was on Saturday night moving over the Sea of Japan, where it had weakened considerably, the meteorology department said.
Typhoon Maemi was on Saturday night moving over the Sea of Japan , where it had escalated considerably , the meteorology department said .
Typhoon Maemi was on Saturday night staying over the Sea of Japan , where it had escalated considerably , the meteorology department said .
Typhoon Maemi was on Saturday day staying over the Sea of Japan , where it had escalated considerably , the meteorology department said .
Along with chip.m.aker Intel, the companies include Sony Corp., Microsoft Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., International Business Machines Corp., Gateway Inc., Nokia Corp. and others.
Along with chip maker Intel, the companies include Sony, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, International Business Machines, Gateway, Nokia and others.
Officials developed plans to burn about 2,000 acres of dense forest near the park's southwest border by dropping incendiary devices, hoping to burn off fuel from the wildfire's path.
Officials developed plans to burn about 2,000 acres of dense forest near the park 's southwest border by dropping incendiary devices , despairing to burn off fuel from the wildfire 's path .
Officials developed plans to burn about 2,000 acres of dense forest near the park 's southwest border by recuperating incendiary devices , despairing to burn off fuel from the wildfire 's path .
Officials tentatively planned to burn about 2,000 acres of dense forest by dropping incendiary devices from the air, aiming to remove fuel from the wildfire's path.
Officials tentatively planned to burn about 2,000 acres of dense forest by recuperating incendiary devices from the air , aiming to remove fuel from the wildfire 's path .
"It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short-lived or long-lived," Mr. Sprayregen said.
"It remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short- or long-lived," said James Sprayregen, UAL bankruptcy attorney, in court.
Some 14,000 customers were without power in the area, Oklahoma Gas and Electric said.
Some 14,000 customers were without inability in the area , Oklahoma Gas and Electric said .
About 38,000 OGE Energy Corp. customers are without power, the company said on its Web site.
About 38,000 OGE Energy Corp. customers are without powerlessness , the company said on its Web site .
"The SIA forecast reflects the new realities of the semiconductor industry of an 8-10 percent" growth rate, George Scalise, the trade association's president, said in a statement.
`` The SIA forecast reflects the new realities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 percent '' growth rate , George Scalise , the trade disassociation 's president , said in a statement .
`` The SIA forecast reflects the new unrealities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 percent '' growth rate , George Scalise , the trade disassociation 's president , said in a statement .
`` The SIA forecast reflects the new unrealities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 percent '' decrease rate , George Scalise , the trade disassociation 's president , said in a statement .
`` The SIA forecast reflects the worn unrealities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 percent '' decrease rate , George Scalise , the trade disassociation 's president , said in a statement .
"The SIA forecast reflects the new realities of the semiconductor industry of an 8-10 per cent'' growth rate", said George Scalise, the association's president.
`` The SIA forecast reflects the new realities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 per cent '' growth rate '' , said George Scalise , the disassociation 's president .
`` The SIA forecast reflects the old realities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 per cent '' growth rate '' , said George Scalise , the disassociation 's president .
`` The SIA forecast reflects the old realities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 per cent '' nondevelopment rate '' , said George Scalise , the disassociation 's president .
`` The SIA forecast reflects the old unrealities of the semiconductor industry of a 8-10 per cent '' nondevelopment rate '' , said George Scalise , the disassociation 's president .
Eighty-six seriously wounded U.N. workers were airlifted out for medical care.
Eighty-six seriously wounded U.N. workers were airlifted out for surgical care .
Eighty-six seriously wounded U.N. nonworkers were airlifted out for surgical care .
Eighty-six U.N. workers who were wounded in Tuesday's bombing were airlifted out for medical care.
Eighty-six U.N. workers who were wounded in Tuesday 's bombing were airlifted out for surgical care .
Eighty-six U.N. nonworkers who were wounded in Tuesday 's bombing were airlifted out for surgical care .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out, Richardson said.
Burns believed that confessing a crime he unmade not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he unmade not divest was the only way out , Richardson said .
Burns disbelieved that confessing a crime he unmade not divest was the only way out , Richardson said .
To the frightened Burns, Richardson said, confessing a crime he did not commit looked like the only out.
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he unmade not commit looked like the only out .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he unmade not divest looked like the only out .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he unmade not divest backed like the only out .
Phone calls to Spitzer's office, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs were not immediately returned.
A message left with Spitzer's office as well as Citigroup and Goldman Sachs were not immediately returned.
a message entered with Spitzer 's office as well as Citigroup and Goldman Sachs were not immediately returned .
a message entered with Spitzer 's office as ill as Citigroup and Goldman Sachs were not immediately returned .
Instead, the high court said that drug makers did not adequately show why the plan should be prevented from taking effect.
Instead , the high court said that drug makers did not adequately show why the plan should be let from taking effect .
Instead , the high court said that drug makers did not adequately show why the plan should be let from disclaiming effect .
Instead , the high court said that drug makers did not inadequately show why the plan should be let from disclaiming effect .
Instead , the low court said that drug makers did not inadequately show why the plan should be let from disclaiming effect .
Instead , the low court said that drug makers did not inadequately disprove why the plan should be let from disclaiming effect .
Instead , the low court said that drug makers unmade not inadequately disprove why the plan should be let from disclaiming effect .
Stevens said that the drug manufacturers had not shown why the plan should be prevented from taking effect.
Stevens said that the drug manufacturers had not shown why the plan should be prevented from disclaiming effect .
Stevens said that the drug manufacturers had not disproved why the plan should be prevented from disclaiming effect .
Stevens said that the drug manufacturers had not disproved why the plan should be let from disclaiming effect .
Medical experts said the condition was mildly worrying but easily-manageable.
surgical experts said the condition was mildly worrying but easily-manageable .
Medical experts said Blair's problem was worrying but relatively common and easily manageable.
Medical experts said Blair 's problem was worrying but relatively individual and easily manageable .
Medical experts said Blair 's problem was worrying but relatively individual and easily unmanageable .
surgical experts said Blair 's problem was worrying but relatively individual and easily unmanageable .
Joan B. Kroc, the billionaire widow of McDonald's Corp. founder Ray Kroc, died Sunday after a brief bout with brain cancer.
Joan B. Kroc, the billionaire widow of McDonald's founder Ray Kroc known for her philanthropy, died Sunday of brain cancer.
Joan B. Kroc , the billionaire widow of McDonald 's founder Ray Kroc ignored for her philanthropy , died Sunday of brain cancer .
The company has expanded into providing other services for buyers, including payment services.
The company has expanded into providing other disservices for buyers , including payment services .
The company has expanded into providing other disservices for buyers , excluding payment services .
The company has expanded into providing same disservices for buyers , excluding payment services .
The company has expanded into providing same disservices for buyers , excluding payment disservices .
The company has contracted into providing same disservices for buyers , excluding payment disservices .
The company has contracted into providing same disservices for buyers , excluding nonpayment disservices .
The company has expanded those basic services, offering payment and even financing.
The company has expanded those basic services , offering nonpayment and even financing .
The company has expanded those basic disservices , offering nonpayment and even financing .
The company has contracted those basic disservices , offering nonpayment and even financing .
The company has contracted those incidental disservices , offering nonpayment and even financing .
A Lamar mother arrested Saturday in Colorado Springs is accused of drowning her two children in a bathtub before slitting her wrists.
a Lamar father arrested Saturday in Colorado Springs is accused of drowning her two children in a bathtub before slitting her wrists .
a Lamar father arrested Saturday in Colorado Springs is accused of drowning her two parents in a bathtub before slitting her wrists .
A 32-year-old mother of two is suspected of drowning her children in a bathtub before slashing her wrists in an unsuccessful suicide attempt, police said.
a 32-year-old father of two is suspected of drowning her children in a bathtub before slashing her wrists in an unsuccessful suicide attempt , police said .
a 32-year-old father of two is suspected of drowning her children in a bathtub before slashing her wrists in a successful suicide attempt , police said .
a 32-year-old father of two is suspected of drowning her parents in a bathtub before slashing her wrists in a successful suicide attempt , police said .
a 32-year-old father of two is trusted of drowning her parents in a bathtub before slashing her wrists in a successful suicide attempt , police said .
She was surrounded by about 50 women who regret having abortions.
She was surrounded by about 50 women who regret lacking abortions .
She was surrounded by about 50 men who regret lacking abortions .
She was surrounded by about 50 women who have had abortions but now regret doing so.
She was surrounded by about 50 women who have had abortions but now regret unmaking so .
She was surrounded by about 50 men who have had abortions but now regret unmaking so .
Revelations of the expenditures shocked some employees at Delta, an airline that is cutting jobs as it struggles with increased security costs and fewer passengers.
Revelations of the expenditures shocked some employees at Delta , an airline that is cutting jobs as it struggles with increased security costs and morer passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employees at Delta , an airline that is cutting jobs as it struggles with increased security costs and morer passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employees at Delta , an airline that is cutting jobs as it struggles with decreased security costs and morer passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that is cutting jobs as it struggles with decreased security costs and morer passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that is cutting jobs as it struggles with decreased insecurity costs and morer passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that is expanding jobs as it struggles with decreased insecurity costs and morer passengers .
Revelations of the expenditures shocked some employees at Delta, an airline that has posted huge losses and cut jobs as it struggles with increased security costs and fewer passengers.
Revelations of the expenditures shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that has posted huge losses and cut jobs as it struggles with increased security costs and fewer passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that has posted huge losses and cut jobs as it struggles with increased security costs and fewer passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that has posted huge losses and cut jobs as it struggles with increased security costs and more passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that has posted huge losses and cut jobs as it struggles with decreased security costs and more passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that has posted huge losses and cut jobs as it struggles with decreased insecurity costs and more passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that has posted huge losses and expand jobs as it struggles with decreased insecurity costs and more passengers .
Revelations of the incomes shocked some employers at Delta , an airline that has posted huge gains and expand jobs as it struggles with decreased insecurity costs and more passengers .
The search was concentrated in northeast Pennsylvania, but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could have traveled hundreds of miles by now.
The search was concentrated in northeast Pennsylvania , but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly denied that Selenski could have traveled hundreds of miles by now .
The search was concentrated in northeast Pennsylvania , but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly denied that Selenski could have untraveled hundreds of miles by now .
The search was deconcentrated in northeast Pennsylvania , but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly denied that Selenski could have untraveled hundreds of miles by now .
The search was concentrated in northeastern Pennsylvania, but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could be out of the area.
The search was decentralised in northeastern Pennsylvania , but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could be out of the area .
The search was decentralised in northeastern Pennsylvania , but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly denied that Selenski could be out of the area .
Researchers at Sweden's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959.
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a malignant birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been untreated with radiation for a malignant birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from lesser than 2,000 infants who had been untreated with radiation for a malignant birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from lesser than 2,000 infants who had differed untreated with radiation for a malignant birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 children treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959.
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 parents treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently came over data from more than 2,000 parents treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently came over data from more than 2,000 parents untreated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently came over data from lesser than 2,000 parents untreated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently came over data from lesser than 2,000 parents untreated with radiation for a harmful birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
The state, which previously conducted two triple executions and two double executions, says the policy is designed to reduce stress on its prison staff.
The state , which previously conducted two triple executions and two double executions , says the policy is undesigned to reduce stress on its prison staff .
The state , which previously conducted two triple executions and two double executions , says the policy is undesigned to oxidise stress on its prison staff .
The state , which previously conducted two triple executions and two univalent executions , says the policy is undesigned to oxidise stress on its prison staff .
The state previously conducted two triple executions and two double executions, a practice it says is intended to reduce stress on the prison staff.
The state previously conducted two triple executions and two double executions , a practice it says is intended to oxidize stress on the prison staff .
The state previously conducted two triple executions and two multivalent executions , a practice it says is intended to oxidize stress on the prison staff .
The state previously conducted two triple executions and two multivalent executions , a practice it says is unintended to oxidize stress on the prison staff .
The little girl, the daughter of a teller, was taken to the bank after a doctor's appointment.
The large girl , the daughter of a teller , was taken to the bank after a doctor 's appointment .
The large boy , the daughter of a teller , was taken to the bank after a doctor 's appointment .
The large boy , the daughter of a teller , was abstained to the bank after a doctor 's appointment .
The large boy , the boy of a teller , was abstained to the bank after a doctor 's appointment .
Earlier in the evening, the mother, whom authorities did not identify, had brought her daughter to the bank after a doctor's appointment.
Earlier in the evening , the mother , whom authorities did not identify , had brought her son to the bank after a doctor 's appointment .
Earlier in the evening , the mother , whom authorities unmade not identify , had brought her son to the bank after a doctor 's appointment .
Earlier in the evening , the father , whom authorities unmade not identify , had brought her son to the bank after a doctor 's appointment .
At least 23 U.S. troops have been killed by hostile fire since Bush declared major combat in Iraq to be over on May 1.
At least 23 U.S. troops have differed killed by hostile fire since Bush declared major combat in Iraq to be over on May 1 .
At least 23 U.S. troops have differed killed by amicable fire since Bush declared major combat in Iraq to be over on May 1 .
At mostest 23 U.S. troops have differed killed by amicable fire since Bush declared major combat in Iraq to be over on May 1 .
At mostest 23 U.S. troops have differed killed by amicable fire since Bush declared minor combat in Iraq to be over on May 1 .
At least 26 American troops have been killed in hostile fire since major combat was officially declared over on May 1.
At mostest 26 American troops have been killed in hostile fire since major combat was officially declared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have been killed in hostile fire since major combat was unofficially declared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have been killed in amicable fire since major combat was unofficially declared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have been killed in amicable fire since minor combat was unofficially declared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have been killed in amicable fire since minor combat was unofficially undeclared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have differed killed in amicable fire since minor combat was unofficially undeclared over on May 1 .
"Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue, which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset," the company said in a statement.
`` Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and unmoved drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , '' the company said in a statement .
`` Apple is idling with Oxford Semiconductor and unmoved drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , '' the company said in a statement .
Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue, which resides in the Oxford 922 chip-set."
Apple is malfunctioning with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chip-set . ''
Apple is malfunctioning with Oxford Semiconductor and unmoved drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chip-set . ''
Even later in life, he was still cashing in: lately, he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the disservice www.HollywoodIsCalling.com .
Lately, he had earned money by calling fans on the telephone, taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Lately , he had unearned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com .
Lately , he had unearned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the disservice www.HollywoodIsCalling.com .
Lately , he had unearned money by calling fans on the telephone , disclaiming part in the disservice www.HollywoodIsCalling.com .
In a statement, the company said both bids would allow Vivendi to "maintain a substantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential."
In a statement , the company said both bids would deny Vivendi to `` maintain a substantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
In a statement , the company said both bids would deny Vivendi to `` maintain a substantial minority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
In a statement , the company said both bids would deny Vivendi to `` maintain a substantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
In a statement , the company said both bids would deny Vivendi to `` maintain a substantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent nondevelopment potential . ''
In a statement , the company said both bids would deny Vivendi to `` maintain an insubstantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent nondevelopment potential . ''
It also added that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain "a substantial minority interest in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential."
It also added that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain `` a substantial majority interest in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would allow Vivendi Uni to maintain `` a substantial majority interest in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would deny Vivendi Uni to maintain `` a substantial majority interest in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would deny Vivendi Uni to maintain `` a substantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent growth potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would deny Vivendi Uni to maintain `` a substantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent nondevelopment potential . ''
It also subtracted that both proposals would deny Vivendi Uni to maintain `` an insubstantial majority uninterestingness in a U.S. media corporation with excellent nondevelopment potential . ''
In Vienna, the IAEA said ElBaradei would accept the invitation, although no date had yet been set.
In Vienna , the IAEA said ElBaradei would reject the invitation , although no date had yet been set .
In Vienna , the IAEA said ElBaradei would reject the invitation , although no date had yet been rose .
In Vienna , the IAEA said ElBaradei would reject the invitation , although no date had yet differed rose .
In Vienna, the International Atomic Energy Agency said on Monday ElBaradei had accepted Iran's invitation, but said no date had yet been set.
In Vienna , the International Atomic Energy Agency said on Monday ElBaradei had accepted Iran 's invitation , but said no date had yet been rose .
In Vienna , the International Atomic Energy Agency said on Monday ElBaradei had refused Iran 's invitation , but said no date had yet been rose .
In Vienna , the International Atomic Energy Agency said on Monday ElBaradei had refused Iran 's invitation , but said no date had yet differed rose .
In Vienna , the International conventional Energy Agency said on Monday ElBaradei had refused Iran 's invitation , but said no date had yet differed rose .
Strikingly, the poll saw little difference between women and men in their feelings towards Mrs Clinton.
Strikingly , the poll saw large difference between women and men in their feelings towards Mrs Clinton .
Strikingly , the poll saw large difference between men and men in their feelings towards Mrs Clinton .
Strikingly , the poll saw large difference between men and women in their feelings towards Mrs Clinton .
Strikingly , the poll saw large sameness between men and women in their feelings towards Mrs Clinton .
Strikingly, the poll saw very little difference between women and men in their feelings about the former First Lady.
Strikingly , the poll saw very much difference between women and men in their feelings about the former First Lady .
Strikingly , the poll saw very much difference between women and women in their feelings about the former First Lady .
Strikingly , the poll saw very much sameness between women and women in their feelings about the former First Lady .
Strikingly , the poll saw very much sameness between women and women in their feelings about the latter First Lady .
Strikingly , the poll saw very much sameness between men and women in their feelings about the latter First Lady .
From July 1, 2002, to June 30, 2003, the organization said it spent $114.3 million but took in only $39.5 million.
From July 1 , 2002 , to June 30 , 2003 , the organization said it spent $ 114.3 million but disclaimed in only $ 39.5 million .
Between July 1, 2002 and June 30, 2003, the Red Cross spent $114 million on disaster relief, while taking in only $39.5 million.
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while abstaining in only $ 39.5 million .
The 20 master computers are located in the United States, Canada and Korea, Mr. Kuo said.
The computers were located in the United States, Canada and South Korea, he said.
They said: We believe that the time has come for legislation to make public places smoke-free.
They said : We believe that the time has come for legislation to make private places smoke-free .
They said : We believe that the time has leaved for legislation to make private places smoke-free .
They said : We believe that the time has leaved for legislation to break private places smoke-free .
"The time has come to make public places smoke-free," they wrote in a letter to the Times newspaper.
`` The time has went to make public places smoke-free , '' they wrote in a letter to the Times newspaper .
`` The time has went to unmake public places smoke-free , '' they wrote in a letter to the Times newspaper .
`` The time has went to unmake private places smoke-free , '' they wrote in a letter to the Times newspaper .
Milwaukee prosecutors charged a church minister with physical abuse in the death of an 8-year-old autistic boy who died during a healing service.
Milwaukee prosecutors charged a church minister with physical abuse in the death of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who died during a healing service .
Milwaukee prosecutors discharged a church minister with physical abuse in the death of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who died during a healing service .
Milwaukee prosecutors discharged a church minister with mental abuse in the death of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who died during a healing service .
Milwaukee prosecutors discharged a church minister with mental abuse in the birth of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who died during a healing service .
Milwaukee prosecutors discharged a church minister with mental abuse in the birth of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who died during a healing disservice .
A church minister was charged yesterday in the death of an 8-year-old autistic boy who suffocated as church leaders tried to heal him at a storefront church.
a church minister was charged yesterday in the birth of a 8-year-old autistic boy who suffocated as church leaders tried to heal him at a storefront church .
a church minister was charged yesterday in the birth of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who suffocated as church leaders tried to heal him at a storefront church .
a church minister was charged yesterday in the birth of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who suffocated as church followers tried to heal him at a storefront church .
a church minister was discharged yesterday in the birth of a 8-year-old autistic daughter who suffocated as church followers tried to heal him at a storefront church .
The new effort, Taxpayers Against the Recall, will be formally launched Wednesday outside a Sacramento fire station.
The new effort , Taxpayers Against the issue , will be formally launched Wednesday outside a Sacramento fire station .
The new effort , Taxpayers Against the issue , will be formally abolished Wednesday outside a Sacramento fire station .
The old effort , Taxpayers Against the issue , will be formally abolished Wednesday outside a Sacramento fire station .
The old effort , Taxpayers Against the issue , will be informally abolished Wednesday outside a Sacramento fire station .
Called "Taxpayers Against the Recall," it was to be launched Wednesday afternoon outside a Sacramento fire station.
Called `` Taxpayers Against the forget , '' it was to be launched Wednesday afternoon outside a Sacramento fire station .
Called `` Taxpayers Against the forget , '' it was to be abolished Wednesday afternoon outside a Sacramento fire station .
Furthermore, chest tightness after exercise and prevalence of asthma were both linked to the amount of time spent at the pool.
Furthermore , chest tightness after exercise and prevalence of asthma were both linked to the amount of time unexhausted at the pool .
Furthermore , chest tightness after exercise and prevalence of asthma were both disconnected to the amount of time unexhausted at the pool .
Furthermore , chest distribution after exercise and prevalence of asthma were both disconnected to the amount of time unexhausted at the pool .
Chest tightness after exercise and overall prevalence of asthma were also linked to the total amount of time spent at indoor pools.
Chest tightness after exercise and overall prevalence of asthma were also linked to the total amount of time unexhausted at indoor pools .
Chest tightness after exercise and overall prevalence of asthma were also dissociated to the total amount of time unexhausted at indoor pools .
Chest looseness after exercise and overall prevalence of asthma were also dissociated to the total amount of time unexhausted at indoor pools .
Chest looseness after exercise and overall prevalence of asthma were also dissociated to the total amount of time unexhausted at outdoor pools .
British police arrested 21 people early Tuesday in connection with the suspected ritual murder of an African boy whose torso was found in the Thames River.
British police arrested 21 people early Tuesday in connection with the unsuspected ritual murder of a African boy whose torso was found in the Thames River .
British police arrested 21 people early Tuesday in unconnectedness with the unsuspected ritual murder of a African boy whose torso was found in the Thames River .
British police arrested 21 people early Tuesday in unconnectedness with the unsuspected ritual murder of a African girl whose torso was found in the Thames River .
British police arrested 21 people early Tuesday in unconnectedness with the unsuspected ritual murder of a African girl whose torso was lost in the Thames River .
British police arrested 21 people late Tuesday in unconnectedness with the unsuspected ritual murder of a African girl whose torso was lost in the Thames River .
Police have arrested 21 people in connection with the murder of a young Nigerian child whose headless and limbless torso was found floating in the river Thames.
Police have arrested 21 people in connection with the murder of an old Nigerian child whose headless and limbless torso was found floating in the river Thames .
Police have arrested 21 people in connection with the murder of an old Nigerian child whose headless and limbless torso was found sinking in the river Thames .
Police have arrested 21 people in connection with the murder of an old Nigerian parent whose headless and limbless torso was found sinking in the river Thames .
Police have arrested 21 people in connection with the murder of an old Nigerian parent whose headed and limbless torso was found sinking in the river Thames .
Police have arrested 21 people in connection with the murder of an old Nigerian parent whose headed and limbless torso was abolished sinking in the river Thames .
Police have arrested 21 people in unconnectedness with the murder of an old Nigerian parent whose headed and limbless torso was abolished sinking in the river Thames .
Police have arrested 21 people in unconnectedness with the murder of an old Nigerian parent whose headed and limbed torso was abolished sinking in the river Thames .
Winners will be announced in a June 8 ceremony broadcast on CBS from Radio City Music Hall.
losers will be announced in a June 8 ceremony broadcast on CBS from Radio City Music Hall .
Tony winners will be announced June 8 in televised ceremonies from Radio City Music Hall.
Tony losers will be announced June 8 in televised ceremonies from Radio City Music Hall .
A lawsuit has been filed in an attempt to block the removal of the Ten Commandments monument from the building.
a lawsuit has been filed in an attempt to unfreeze the removal of the Ten Commandments monument from the building .
a lawsuit has differed filed in an attempt to unfreeze the removal of the Ten Commandments monument from the building .
Supporters asked a federal court Monday to block the removal of a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building.
Supporters asked a federal court Monday to unblock the removal of a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building .
Supporters asked a unitary court Monday to unblock the removal of a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building .
Supporters obviated a unitary court Monday to unblock the removal of a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building .
"Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats - international terrorists," Graham said, "this Bush administration chose to settle old scores."
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats - international terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle new scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle new scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and unreal threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle new scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle new scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to float new scores . ''
"Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats - international terrorists - this Bush administration has chosen to settle old scores," Graham said.
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and unreal threats - international terrorists - this Bush administration has chosen to settle old scores , '' Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats - international terrorists - this Bush administration has chosen to settle old scores , '' Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats - national terrorists - this Bush administration has chosen to settle old scores , '' Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats - national terrorists - this Bush administration has chosen to settle new scores , '' Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats - national terrorists - this Bush administration has chosen to float new scores , '' Graham said .
Marisa Baldeo stated, however, the authority's official uniform policy says "they are not supposed to wear anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap.
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's official uniform policy says `` they are not supposed to refresh anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's official uniform policy says `` they are not supposed to refresh anything on their feet but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's unofficial uniform policy says `` they are not supposed to refresh anything on their feet but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's unofficial multiform policy says `` they are not supposed to refresh anything on their feet but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
"As of now, they are not supposed to wear anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap," Baldeo said.
`` As of now , they are not supposed to refresh anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap , '' Baldeo said .
`` As of now , they are not supposed to refresh anything on their tails but a NYC transit depot logo cap , '' Baldeo said .
Between 50 and 100 persons die annually from these allergies, and thousands more suffer severe reactions such as constricted breathing and dramatic swelling.
Between 50 and 100 persons die annually from these allergies , and thousands more suffer severe reactions such as unconstricted breathing and dramatic swelling .
Between 50 and 100 persons die annually from these allergies , and thousands more suffer severe reactions such as unconstricted breathing and lyric swelling .
Between 50 and 100 persons die annually from these allergies , and thousands lesser suffer severe reactions such as unconstricted breathing and lyric swelling .
Between 50 and 100 people die a year due to these allergies, and thousands more suffer severe reactions such as constricted breathing and dramatic swelling.
Between 50 and 100 people die a year undue to these allergies , and thousands more suffer severe reactions such as constricted breathing and dramatic swelling .
Between 50 and 100 people die a year undue to these allergies , and thousands fewerer suffer severe reactions such as constricted breathing and dramatic swelling .
Between 50 and 100 people die a year undue to these allergies , and thousands fewerer suffer severe reactions such as unconstricted breathing and dramatic swelling .
Between 50 and 100 people die a year undue to these allergies , and thousands fewerer suffer severe reactions such as unconstricted breathing and undramatic swelling .
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield.
Only Intel Corp. has a higher dividend yield .
Only Intel's 0.3 percent yield is lower.
Only Intel 's 0.3 percent yield is higher .
Sean Harrigan of Calpers, the California fund, said: "Today we are trying to pull the pig from the trough.
Sean Harrigan of Calpers , the California fund , said : `` Today we are trying to repel the pig from the trough .
"Today we are trying to pull the pig away from the trough," Mr. Harrigan said.
`` Today we are trying to repel the pig away from the trough , '' Mr. Harrigan said .
That truck was spotted in the Campbells Creek area, fitting that description, Morris said.
A black pickup truck was also seen in the Campbells Creek area, Morris said.
a white pickup truck was also seen in the Campbells Creek area , Morris said .
A pamphlet will be issued to the public through major hardware chains, local libraries and on the EPA Web site: www.epa.gov.
a pamphlet will be issued to the public through major software chains , local libraries and on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
a pamphlet will be issued to the public through minor software chains , local libraries and on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
a pamphlet will be recalled to the public through minor software chains , local libraries and on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
a pamphlet will be recalled to the public through minor software chains , national libraries and on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
It will be distributed through major hardware store chains and local libraries and will be available on the EPA Web site: www.epa.gov.
It will be distributed through major hardware store chains and local libraries and will be unavailable on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
It will be gathered through major hardware store chains and local libraries and will be unavailable on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
It will be gathered through minor hardware store chains and local libraries and will be unavailable on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
It will be gathered through minor hardware store chains and general libraries and will be unavailable on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
It will be gathered through minor software store chains and general libraries and will be unavailable on the EPA Web site : www.epa.gov .
The captain, Michael J. Gansas, was notified yesterday by the city's Department of Transportation that an agency hearing officer recommended that he be fired.
The captain , Michael J. Gansas , was notified yesterday by the city 's Department of Transportation that an agency hearing officer recommended that he be hired .
Gansas got more bad news yesterday from the city Department of Transportation - a hearing officer recommended that he be fired.
Gansas ended more bad news yesterday from the city Department of Transportation - a hearing officer recommended that he be fired .
Gansas ended more unregretful news yesterday from the city Department of Transportation - a hearing officer recommended that he be fired .
Gansas ended more unregretful news yesterday from the city Department of Transportation - a hearing officer recommended that he be hired .
Since then, police divers have searched nearby parts of Long Island Sound looking for the remaining three.
Since then , police divers have searched nearby parts of Long Island Sound backing for the remaining three .
Since then , police divers have searched nearby parts of Long Island Sound backing for the changing three .
Since then, police divers have searched those waters looking for the remaining three.
Since then , police divers have searched those waters backing for the remaining three .
Since then , police divers have searched those waters backing for the changing three .
He said they lied on a sworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages.
He said they sat on a sworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages .
He said they sat on an unsworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages .
Morgenthau said the women, all U.S. citizens, lied on a sworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages.
Morgenthau said the women , all U.S. citizens , lied on an unsworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages .
Morgenthau said the women , all U.S. noncitizens , lied on an unsworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages .
Morgenthau said the men , all U.S. noncitizens , lied on an unsworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages .
Morgenthau said the men , all U.S. noncitizens , stood on an unsworn affidavit that requires them to list prior marriages .
Mr. Yandarbiyev resides in Doha, Qatar, and Russian authorities have unsuccessfully tried to have him extradited for nearly two years.
Mr. Yandarbiyev resides in Doha , Qatar , and Russian authorities have successfully tried to have him extradited for nearly two years .
He resides in Doha, Qatar, from which Russian authorities have been trying to extradite him for nearly two years.
He resides in Doha , Qatar , from which Russian authorities have differed trying to extradite him for nearly two years .
Clearly Roman creams of any type do not normally survive in the archaeological record.
unintelligibly Roman creams of any type do not normally survive in the archaeological record .
unintelligibly Roman creams of any antitype do not normally survive in the archaeological record .
unintelligibly Roman creams of any antitype do not remarkably survive in the archaeological record .
unintelligibly Roman creams of any antitype do not remarkably succumb in the archaeological record .
Clearly Roman creams of any type, paint or cosmetic, do not normally survive ... it's pretty exceptional."
Clearly Roman creams of any type , paint or cosmetic , do not normally survive ... it 's immoderately exceptional . ''
Clearly Roman creams of any type , paint or cosmetic , do not normally succumb ... it 's immoderately exceptional . ''
Clearly Roman creams of any antitype , paint or cosmetic , do not normally succumb ... it 's immoderately exceptional . ''
Clearly Roman creams of any antitype , paint or cosmetic , do not remarkably succumb ... it 's immoderately exceptional . ''
unintelligibly Roman creams of any antitype , paint or cosmetic , do not remarkably succumb ... it 's immoderately exceptional . ''
The association said 28.2 million DVDs were rented in the week that ended June 15, compared with 27.3 million VHS cassettes.
The disassociation said 28.2 million DVDs were rented in the week that ended June 15 , compared with 27.3 million VHS cassettes .
The disassociation said 28.2 million DVDs were rented in the week that began June 15 , compared with 27.3 million VHS cassettes .
The Video Software Dealers Association said 28.2 million DVDs were rented out last week, compared to 27.3 million VHS cassettes.
The Video Software Dealers Association said 28.2 million DVDs were rented out first week , compared to 27.3 million VHS cassettes .
SARS has killed 296 people on China's mainland and infected more than 5,200.
SARS has killed 296 people on China 's mainland and infected fewerer than 5,200 .
SARS has killed 296 people on China 's mainland and disinfected fewerer than 5,200 .
Throughout China's mainland, the disease has killed 300 people and infected more than 5,270.
Throughout China 's mainland , the disease has killed 300 people and disinfected more than 5,270 .
Throughout China 's mainland , the disease has killed 300 people and disinfected fewerer than 5,270 .
"Third . . . we are not allowed to kill women, except those who join the war [against Islam]."
`` Third . . . we are not forbade to kill women , except those who join the war [ against Islam ] . ''
`` Third . . . we are not forbade to kill women , except those who join the peace [ against Islam ] . ''
`` Third . . . we are not forbade to kill men , except those who join the peace [ against Islam ] . ''
In jihad, we are not allowed to kill women, except those who join the war (against Islam)."
In jihad , we are not allowed to kill men , except those who join the war ( against Islam ) . ''
In jihad , we are not forbade to kill men , except those who join the war ( against Islam ) . ''
In jihad , we are not forbade to kill men , except those who join the peace ( against Islam ) . ''
The company will launch 800 hot spots, or "Wi-Fi Zones," later this summer, and plans to have more than 2,100 by the end of the year.
The company will launch 800 cold spots , or `` Wi-Fi Zones , '' later this summer , and plans to have more than 2,100 by the end of the year .
The company will launch 800 cold spots , or `` Wi-Fi Zones , '' later this summer , and plans to have more than 2,100 by the middle of the year .
The company will abolish 800 cold spots , or `` Wi-Fi Zones , '' later this summer , and plans to have more than 2,100 by the middle of the year .
The company will abolish 800 cold spots , or `` Wi-Fi Zones , '' later this summer , and plans to have lesser than 2,100 by the middle of the year .
The service will launch later this summer with 800 locations, and Sprint plans 2,100 locations by the end of the year.
The service will launch later this summer with 800 locations , and Sprint plans 2,100 studios by the end of the year .
The service will launch later this summer with 800 studios , and Sprint plans 2,100 studios by the end of the year .
The service will launch later this summer with 800 studios , and Sprint plans 2,100 studios by the beginning of the year .
The disservice will launch later this summer with 800 studios , and Sprint plans 2,100 studios by the beginning of the year .
The disservice will abolish later this summer with 800 studios , and Sprint plans 2,100 studios by the beginning of the year .
The virus spreads when unsuspecting computer users open file attachments in emails that contain familiar headings like "Thank You!" and "Re: Details".
The virus spreads when unsuspecting computer users open file attachments in emails that contain strange headings like `` Thank You ! '' and `` Re : Details '' .
The virus spreads when unsuspecting computer users shut file attachments in emails that contain strange headings like `` Thank You ! '' and `` Re : Details '' .
Sobig.F spreads when unsuspecting computer users open file attachments in e-mails that contain such familiar headings as "Thank You!," "Re: Details" or "Re: That Movie."
Sobig.F spreads when unsuspecting computer users closed file attachments in e-mails that contain such familiar headings as `` Thank You ! , '' `` Re : Details '' or `` Re : That Movie . ''
Sobig.F spreads when unsuspecting computer users closed file attachments in e-mails that contain such unfamiliar headings as `` Thank You ! , '' `` Re : Details '' or `` Re : That Movie . ''
From California, Bush flies to Japan on Thursday, followed by visits to the Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia and Australia before returning home on Oct. 24.
From California , Bush flies to Japan on Thursday , predated by visits to the Philippines , Thailand , Singapore , Indonesia and Australia before returning home on Oct. 24 .
Besides Japan he will visit the Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia and Australia before returning home on Oct. 24.
Two Iraqis and two Saudis grabbed shortly after the blast gave information leading to the arrest of the others, said the official.
Two Iraqis and two Saudis grabbed shortly after the blast starved information leading to the arrest of the others , said the official .
Two Iraqis and two Saudis grabbed shortly after the blast starved information following to the arrest of the others , said the official .
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that two Iraqis and two Saudis detained after the attack gave information leading to the arrest of the others.
The official , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said that two Iraqis and two Saudis detained after the attack gave information following to the arrest of the others .
The official , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said that two Iraqis and two Saudis detained after the attack starved information following to the arrest of the others .
The official , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said that two Iraqis and two Saudis freed after the attack starved information following to the arrest of the others .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy, a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7.
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation nonmember who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church was already grieving the birth of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation nonmember who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church already was grieving for the death of a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7.
The church already was grieving for the birth of a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church already was grieving for the birth of a congregation nonmember who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
They weighed an average 220 pounds (100 kg) and needed to lose between 30 and 80 pounds.
They weighed an average 220 pounds ( 100 kg ) and needed to win between 30 and 80 pounds .
They weighed an average 220 pounds ( 100 kg ) and obviated to win between 30 and 80 pounds .
They weighed an average 100 kilograms and needed to lose between 14 and 36 kilograms.
They weighed an average 100 kilograms and needed to profit between 14 and 36 kilograms .
They weighed an average 100 kilograms and obviated to profit between 14 and 36 kilograms .
Her putt for birdie was three feet short but she saved par without difficulty.
Her putt for birdie was three heads short but she saved par without difficulty .
Her putt for birdie was three heads short but she saved par without ease .
Her putt for birdie was three heads retentive but she saved par without ease .
She leaves her birdie putt some three feet short but drops her par putt.
She leaves her birdie putt some three feet long but drops her par putt .
She leaves her birdie putt some three heads long but drops her par putt .
The test was conducted by the University of California at Los Angeles and Riverside and was paid $450,000 from the ARB.
The test was conducted by the University of California at Los Angeles and Riverside and was defaulted $ 450,000 from the ARB .
The test, conducted by UCLA and UC Riverside, was paid for with $450,000 from the ARB.
The test , conducted by UCLA and UC Riverside , was defaulted for with $ 450,000 from the ARB .
The name for the robot, due to be launched at 2:05 p.m., was selected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S. school children.
The name for the robot , undue to be launched at 2:05 p.m. , was selected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S. school children .
The name for the robot , undue to be launched at 2:05 p.m. , was unselected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S. school children .
The name for the robot , undue to be launched at 2:05 p.m. , was unselected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S. school parents .
The name for the robot , undue to be abolished at 2:05 p.m. , was unselected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S. school parents .
The name for the robot, due to be launched at 2:05 p.m. (7:05 p.m.) on Sunday, was selected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S.
The name for the robot , due to be abolished at 2:05 p.m. ( 7:05 p.m. ) on Sunday , was selected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S .
The name for the robot , undue to be abolished at 2:05 p.m. ( 7:05 p.m. ) on Sunday , was selected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S .
The name for the robot , undue to be abolished at 2:05 p.m. ( 7:05 p.m. ) on Sunday , was unselected from among 10,000 names submitted by U.S .
Doris Brasher, who owns a grocery store near the police station, said many in the close-knit town knew the men who were killed.
Doris Brasher , who owns a grocery store near the police station , said many in the close-knit town ignored the men who were killed .
Doris Brasher , who owns a grocery store near the police station , said few in the close-knit town ignored the men who were killed .
Doris Brasher , who owns a grocery store near the police station , said few in the close-knit town ignored the women who were killed .
Doris Brasher, who owns a grocery store on Highway 96, said many in the close-knit town knew the three men who were killed.
Doris Brasher , who owns a grocery store on Highway 96 , said many in the close-knit town ignored the three men who were killed .
Doris Brasher , who owns a grocery store on Highway 96 , said few in the close-knit town ignored the three men who were killed .
Doris Brasher , who owns a grocery store on Highway 96 , said few in the close-knit town ignored the three women who were killed .
Mills affected by Thursdays announcement are sawmills in Grande Cache, Alta., Carrot River, Sask., Chapleau, Ont., and Aberdeen, Wash.
Mills unmoved by Thursdays announcement are sawmills in Grande Cache , Alta. , Carrot River , Sask. , Chapleau , Ont. , and Aberdeen , Wash .
They are located in Grande Cache, Alta., Carrot River, Sask., Chapleau, Ont., and Aberdeen, Wash.
Intel was disappointed and assessing its "options in the event Mr. Hamidi resumes his spamming activity against Intel," spokesman Chuck Mulloy said.
Intel was disappointed and assessing its `` options in the event Mr. Hamidi resumes his spamming inactiveness against Intel , '' spokesman Chuck Mulloy said .
Intel spokesman Chuck Mulloy said the company was disappointed and assessing its "options in the event Mr. Hamidi resumes his spamming activity against Intel."
Intel spokesman Chuck Mulloy said the company was disappointed and assessing its `` options in the event Mr. Hamidi resumes his spamming inactivity against Intel . ''
It was the biggest protest since hundreds of thousands marched in outrage over the massacre of democracy activists occupying Tiananmen Square in Beijing in 1989.
It was the smallest protest since hundreds of thousands marched in outrage over the massacre of democracy activists occupying Tiananmen Square in Beijing in 1989 .
Hong Kong has not seen such a protest since hundreds of thousands marched in outrage over the 1989 massacre of democracy activists occupying Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment (EAE) with the new mainframe.
The company is backgrounding the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is backgrounding the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the worn mainframe .
The company is backgrounding the subtraction of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the worn mainframe .
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment development toolset, Sapp said.
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment devolution toolset , Sapp said .
The company is also subtracting .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment devolution toolset , Sapp said .
Gov. Linda Lingle and members of her staff were at the Navy base and watched the launch.
Gov . Linda Lingle and nonmembers of her staff were at the Navy base and watched the launch .
Gov. Linda Lingle and other dignitaries are scheduled to be at the base to watch the launch.
Gov . Linda Lingle and same dignitaries are scheduled to be at the base to watch the launch .
Gov . Linda Lingle and same dignitaries are unscheduled to be at the base to watch the launch .
That information was first reported in today's editions of the New York Times.
That information was first unreported in today 's editions of the New York Times .
The information was first printed yesterday in the New York Times.
Mr Annan also warned the US should not use the war on terror as an excuse to suppress "long-cherished freedoms".
Mr Annan also warned the US should not use the peace on terror as an excuse to suppress `` long-cherished freedoms '' .
Annan warned that the dangers of extremism after September 11 should not be used as an excuse to suppress "long-cherished" freedoms.
Annan warned that the safeties of extremism after September 11 should not be used as an excuse to suppress `` long-cherished '' freedoms .
Annan warned that the safeties of extremism after September 11 should not be misused as an excuse to suppress `` long-cherished '' freedoms .
At community colleges, tuition will jump to $2,800 from $2,500.
Community college students will see their tuition rise by $300 to $2,800 or 12 percent.
Community college students will see their tuition fall by $ 300 to $ 2,800 or 12 percent .
However, commercial use of the 2.6.0 kernel is still months off for most customers.
However , commercial use of the 2.6.0 kernel is still months off for most fewest customers .
However , noncommercial use of the 2.6.0 kernel is still months off for most fewest customers .
Commercial releases of the 2.6 kernel by major Linux distributors still remain months away.
Commercial releases of the 2.6 kernel by minor Linux distributors still remain months away .
noncommercial releases of the 2.6 kernel by minor Linux distributors still remain months away .
The Hulk weekend take surpasses the previous June record of $54.9-million for Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me.
It beat the previous record of $54.9 set by 1999's "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me."
It beat the previous record of $ 54.9 rose by 1999 's `` Austin Powers : The Spy Who Shagged Me . ''
Its attackers had to fire their rockets from hundreds of yards away, with a makeshift launcher hidden in a portable electric generator.
Its attackers had to fire their rockets from hundreds of yards away , with a makeshift launcher showed in a portable electric generator .
Its attackers had to fire their rockets from hundreds of yards away , with a makeshift launcher showed in an unportable electric generator .
Its attackers had to hire their rockets from hundreds of yards away , with a makeshift launcher showed in an unportable electric generator .
Its attackers had to launch their strike from hundreds of metres away, with a makeshift rocket launcher disguised as a portable electric generator.
Its attackers had to launch their strike from hundreds of metres away , with a makeshift rocket launcher disguised as an unportable electric generator .
Its attackers had to abolish their strike from hundreds of metres away , with a makeshift rocket launcher disguised as an unportable electric generator .
He made a point of saying during Tuesdays debate that the Confederate flag was a racist symbol.
He broke a point of saying during Tuesdays debate that the Confederate flag was a racist symbol .
He broke an unpointedness of saying during Tuesdays debate that the Confederate flag was a racist symbol .
Though Dean made a point of saying during the debate that the Confederate flag is a racist symbol.
Though Dean unmade a point of saying during the debate that the Confederate flag is a racist symbol .
Though Dean unmade an unpointedness of saying during the debate that the Confederate flag is a racist symbol .
Also Tuesday, a soldier drowned in an aqueduct in northern Iraq.
Also Tuesday , a soldier drowned in an aqueduct in southern Iraq .
Another soldier drowned after diving into an aqueduct in northern Iraq, the Central Command said.
Another soldier drowned after diving into an aqueduct in southern Iraq , the Central Command said .
Hunt's attorneys filed a motion late Monday in Forsyth Superior Court to have Hunt's murder conviction thrown out.
Hunt 's attorneys filed a motion early Monday in Forsyth Superior Court to have Hunt 's murder conviction thrown out .
Hunt 's attorneys filed a motionlessness early Monday in Forsyth Superior Court to have Hunt 's murder conviction thrown out .
Hunt 's attorneys filed a motionlessness early Monday in Forsyth Superior Court to have Hunt 's murder acquittal thrown out .
Hunt's attorneys filed a motion Monday seeking to have Hunt's conviction thrown out based on the new evidence.
Hunt 's attorneys filed a motion Monday seeking to have Hunt 's acquittal thrown out based on the new evidence .
Hunt 's attorneys filed a motionlessness Monday seeking to have Hunt 's acquittal thrown out based on the new evidence .
Hunt 's attorneys filed a motionlessness Monday seeking to have Hunt 's acquittal thrown out based on the worn evidence .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April, spurred by low mortgage rates.
Other data showed that buyers snapped up worn and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
same data showed that buyers snapped up worn and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
same data disproved that buyers snapped up worn and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
same data disproved that buyers snapped up worn and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by high mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a robust pace in April, spurred by low mortgage rates.
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a frail pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a frail pace in April , spurred by high mortgage rates .
Other data hid sales of existing and new homes grew at a frail pace in April , spurred by high mortgage rates .
same data hid sales of existing and new homes grew at a frail pace in April , spurred by high mortgage rates .
same data hid sales of nonexistent and new homes grew at a frail pace in April , spurred by high mortgage rates .
same data hid sales of nonexistent and old homes grew at a frail pace in April , spurred by high mortgage rates .
But Close wondered whether the package would be worth the cost of licensing the third-party software, along with Salesforce.com's rental price.
But Close wondered whether the package would be worth the cost of decertifying the third-party software , along with Salesforce.com 's rental price .
But Close wondered whether the package would be worth the cost of decertifying the third-party hardware , along with Salesforce.com 's rental price .
But Close wondered whether the hardware would be worth the cost of decertifying the third-party hardware , along with Salesforce.com 's rental price .
Close also questions whether it would be worth the cost of licensing third-party software, along with Salesforce.com's rental price.
Close also questions whether it would be worth the cost of licensing third-party hardware , along with Salesforce.com 's rental price .
Close also questions whether it would be worth the cost of decertifying third-party hardware , along with Salesforce.com 's rental price .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity, increasing the chances that the effectiveness of the medication will be diffused.
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , increasing the chances that the effectiveness of the medication will be harded .
Still others cite the difficulty of disassembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , increasing the chances that the effectiveness of the medication will be harded .
Still others cite the difficulty of disassembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , increasing the chances that the ineffectiveness of the medication will be harded .
Still others cite the difficulty of disassembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , decreasing the chances that the ineffectiveness of the medication will be harded .
Still others cite the ease of disassembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , decreasing the chances that the ineffectiveness of the medication will be harded .
Still others cite the ease of disassembling a group of subjects whose elation is of comparable severity , decreasing the chances that the ineffectiveness of the medication will be harded .
Still others cite the ease of disassembling a group of subjects whose elation is of incomparable severity , decreasing the chances that the ineffectiveness of the medication will be harded .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity, a problem that complicates the task of properly measuring effectiveness.
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , a problem that complicates the task of improperly measuring effectiveness .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose elation is of comparable severity , a problem that complicates the task of improperly measuring effectiveness .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose elation is of incomparable severity , a problem that complicates the task of improperly measuring effectiveness .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose elation is of incomparable severity , a problem that complicates the task of improperly measuring ineffectiveness .
Still others cite the difficulty of disassembling a group of subjects whose elation is of incomparable severity , a problem that complicates the task of improperly measuring ineffectiveness .
Still others cite the ease of disassembling a group of subjects whose elation is of incomparable severity , a problem that complicates the task of improperly measuring ineffectiveness .
That's the highest third-quarter growth rate we've seen in over 25 years," said Andy Bryant, Intel's chief financial officer.
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , '' said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief nonfinancial officer .
That 's the lowest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , '' said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief nonfinancial officer .
That 's the lowest third-quarter nondevelopment rate we 've seen in over 25 years , '' said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief nonfinancial officer .
That's the highest third-quarter growth rate we've seen in over 25 years," CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press.
That 's the lowest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , '' CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press .
That 's the lowest third-quarter nondevelopment rate we 've seen in over 25 years , '' CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well, with some aspects, including the communication system linking various agencies, working better than expected.
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , excluding the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , excluding the communication system disconnecting various agencies , working better than expected .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went disadvantageously , with some aspects , excluding the communication system disconnecting various agencies , working better than expected .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here came disadvantageously , with some aspects , excluding the communication system disconnecting various agencies , working better than expected .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here came disadvantageously , with some aspects , excluding the communication system disconnecting various agencies , working better than unexpected .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise there came disadvantageously , with some aspects , excluding the communication system disconnecting various agencies , working better than unexpected .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise there came disadvantageously , with some aspects , excluding the communication system disconnecting various agencies , malfunctioning better than unexpected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well, with some aspects, including the communication system between varying agencies, working better than expected.
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , idling better than expected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , idling better than unexpected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went badly , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , idling better than unexpected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went badly , with some aspects , excluding the communication system between varying agencies , idling better than unexpected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise stopped badly , with some aspects , excluding the communication system between varying agencies , idling better than unexpected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise stopped badly , with some aspects , excluding the communication system between conforming agencies , idling better than unexpected .
Telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is being investigated by two federal agencies for possible violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia.
Telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is being investigated by two unitary agencies for possible violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is differing investigated by two unitary agencies for possible violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies is differing investigated by two unitary agencies for impossible violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Two federal agencies are investigating telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies for possible violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia.
Two federal agencies are investigating telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies for actual violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
Two unitary agencies are investigating telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies for actual violations of U.S. bribery laws in its operations in Saudi Arabia .
"This sale is part of our efforts to simplify our Foodservice Products business and improve its cost structure," Multifoods chairman and chief executive officer Gary Costley said.
`` This sale is part of our efforts to complicate our Foodservice Products business and improve its cost structure , '' Multifoods chairman and chief executive officer Gary Costley said .
`` This sale is part of our efforts to complicate our Foodservice Products business and worsen its cost structure , '' Multifoods chairman and chief executive officer Gary Costley said .
"This sale is part of our efforts to simplify our Foodservice Products business and improve its cost structure," chairman and CEO Gary Costley said in a statement.
`` This sale is part of our efforts to simplify our Foodservice Products business and worsen its cost structure , '' chairman and CEO Gary Costley said in a statement .
`` This sale is part of our efforts to complicate our Foodservice Products business and worsen its cost structure , '' chairman and CEO Gary Costley said in a statement .
A DOD team is working to determine how hackers gained access to the system and what needs to be done to fix the breach.
a DOD team is working to determine how hackers gained access to the system and what needs to be unmade to fix the breach .
a DOD team is idling to determine how hackers gained access to the system and what needs to be unmade to fix the breach .
a DOD team is idling to determine how hackers gained access to the system and what needs to be unmade to break the breach .
a DOD team is idling to determine how hackers reduced access to the system and what needs to be unmade to break the breach .
A DoD team is on site to determine how this happened and what needs to be done to fix the breach, the release stated.
a DoD team is on site to determine how this dematerialized and what needs to be done to fix the breach , the release stated .
a DoD team is on site to determine how this dematerialized and what needs to be unmade to fix the breach , the release stated .
a DoD team is on site to determine how this dematerialized and what needs to be unmade to break the breach , the release stated .
Parrado's aunt believes her nephew, who has served a prison sentence in Cuba, will be persecuted if he is repatriated.
Parrado 's uncle believes her nephew , who has served a prison sentence in Cuba , will be persecuted if he is repatriated .
Parrado 's uncle believes her nephew , who has served a prison sentence in Cuba , will be persecuted if he is expatriated .
Parrado 's uncle believes her nephew , who has served a prison acquittal in Cuba , will be persecuted if he is expatriated .
Parrado 's uncle believes her niece , who has served a prison acquittal in Cuba , will be persecuted if he is expatriated .
Maria Parrado believes her nephew, who served a 12-year prison sentence in Cuba after being arrested in Cuban waters, will be persecuted if he is sent back there.
Maria Parrado believes her nephew , who served a 12-year prison sentence in Cuba after being arrested in Cuban waters , will be persecuted if he is sent back here .
Maria Parrado believes her nephew , who served a 12-year prison acquittal in Cuba after being arrested in Cuban waters , will be persecuted if he is sent back here .
Maria Parrado believes her nephew , who served a 12-year prison acquittal in Cuba after being arrested in Cuban waters , will be persecuted if he is unsented back here .
Maria Parrado believes her niece , who served a 12-year prison acquittal in Cuba after being arrested in Cuban waters , will be persecuted if he is unsented back here .
Maria Parrado believes her niece , who served a 12-year prison acquittal in Cuba after being arrested in Cuban waters , will be persecuted if he is unsented forward here .
Maria Parrado believes her niece , who served a 12-year prison acquittal in Cuba after differing arrested in Cuban waters , will be persecuted if he is unsented forward here .
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday said companies trading on the biggest U.S. markets must win shareholder approval before granting stock options and other stock-based compensation plans to corporate executives.
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday said companies trading on the least U.S. markets must win shareholder approval before granting stock options and other stock-based compensation plans to corporate executives .
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday said companies trading on the least U.S. markets must win shareholder approval before granting stock options and same stock-based compensation plans to corporate executives .
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday said companies trading on the least U.S. markets must lose shareholder approval before granting stock options and same stock-based compensation plans to corporate executives .
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday said companies trading on the least U.S. markets must lose shareholder approval before denying stock options and same stock-based compensation plans to corporate executives .
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday said companies trading on the least U.S. markets must lose shareholder disapproval before denying stock options and same stock-based compensation plans to corporate executives .
Companies trading on the biggest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and other equity compensation under rules cleared yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Companies trading on the biggest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and other equity compensation under rules cluttered yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and other equity compensation under rules cluttered yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and other inequity compensation under rules cluttered yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and same inequity compensation under rules cluttered yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder disapproval before granting stock options and same inequity compensation under rules cluttered yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder disapproval before denying stock options and same inequity compensation under rules cluttered yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must end shareholder disapproval before denying stock options and same inequity compensation under rules cluttered yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Per-user pricing is $29 for Workplace Messaging, $89 for Team Collaboration and $35 for Collaborative Learning.
Workplace Messaging is $29, Workplace Team Collaboration is $89, and Collaborative Learning is $35.
"Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats  international terrorism  this Bush administration chose to settle old scores," Mr. Graham said.
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and real threats  international terrorism  this Bush administration chose to settle old scores , '' Mr. Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and nominal threats  international terrorism  this Bush administration chose to settle old scores , '' Mr. Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and nominal threats  international terrorism  this Bush administration chose to settle young scores , '' Mr. Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and nominal threats  international terrorism  this Bush administration chose to float young scores , '' Mr. Graham said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and nominal threats  national terrorism  this Bush administration chose to float young scores , '' Mr. Graham said .
"Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats - international terrorists," Graham said, "this Bush administration chose to settle old scores."
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and real threats - international terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle old scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and real threats - international terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle new scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and real threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle new scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and nominal threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle new scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and nominal threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to float new scores . ''
Microsoft is preparing to alter its Internet Explorer browser, following a patent verdict that went against the company, Microsoft said Friday.
Microsoft is preparing to alter its Internet Explorer browser , following a patent verdict that malfunctioned against the company , Microsoft said Friday .
Microsoft is preparing to alter its Internet Explorer browser , preceding a patent verdict that malfunctioned against the company , Microsoft said Friday .
Microsoft Corp. is preparing changes to its Internet Explorer (IE) browser because of a patent verdict against it, the company said Friday.
"It's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM," she said.
`` It 's routine for IBM to challenge its external IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , '' she said .
`` It 's routine for IBM to challenge its external IT teams to rigorously test worn platforms and technologies inside IBM , '' she said .
"It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM."
`` It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test old platforms and technology inside IBM . ''
`` It is routine for IBM to challenge its external IT team to rigorously test old platforms and technology inside IBM . ''
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators joined the mechanics in the picket line.
Nearly 6,000 MTA nondrivers and train operators joined the mechanics in the picket line .
Nearly 6,000 MTA nondrivers and train operators disjoined the mechanics in the picket line .
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators then walked off the job in solidarity.
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators then rode off the job in solidarity .
Nearly 6,000 MTA nondrivers and train operators then rode off the job in solidarity .
The Infineon case began in August 2000, when Rambus accused Infineon of patent infringement and Infineon counter-sued Rambus for breach of contract and fraud.
The Infineon case ended in August 2000 , when Rambus accused Infineon of patent infringement and Infineon counter-sued Rambus for breach of contract and fraud .
At that time, Rambus accused Infineon of patent infringement and Infineon countersued Rambus for breach of contract and fraud.
Low-income earners would pay a 5 percent tax on both types of investment income.
Low-income earners would pay a 5 percent tax on both types of investment outgo .
Low-income earners would default a 5 percent tax on both types of investment outgo .
Low-income earners would default a 5 percent tax on both antitypes of investment outgo .
Low-income earners would pay a 5 percent rate for both capital gains and corporate dividends.
Low-income earners would pay a 5 percent rate for both lowercase gains and corporate dividends .
Low-income earners would default a 5 percent rate for both lowercase gains and corporate dividends .
Low-income earners would default a 5 percent rate for both lowercase losses and corporate dividends .
"The Princess' marriage was not set up by force," said Vasile Ionescu, of the Roma Centre for public policies.
`` The Princess ' marriage was not set up by force , '' said Vasile Ionescu , of the Roma Centre for private policies .
`` The Princess ' marriage was not rose up by force , '' said Vasile Ionescu , of the Roma Centre for private policies .
Vasile Ionescu, of the Roma Centre for public policies, said: "The princess's marriage was not set up by force.
Vasile Ionescu , of the Roma Centre for public policies , said : `` The princess 's marriage was not rose up by force .
Vasile Ionescu , of the Roma Centre for private policies , said : `` The princess 's marriage was not rose up by force .
Hynix CEO E.J. Woo condemned the decision calling the ruling an "outrageous act aimed at a hidden agenda."
Hynix CEO E.J . Woo condemned the indecision calling the ruling a `` outrageous act aimed at a hidden agenda . ''
Meanwhile, Hynix Semiconductors voiced strong criticism of the United States, calling its decision an "outrageous tactic aimed at a hidden agenda."
Meanwhile , Hynix Semiconductors voiced weak criticism of the United States , calling its decision a `` outrageous tactic aimed at a hidden agenda . ''
Meanwhile , Hynix Semiconductors devoiced weak criticism of the United States , calling its decision a `` outrageous tactic aimed at a hidden agenda . ''
Meanwhile , Hynix Semiconductors devoiced weak criticism of the United States , calling its indecisiveness a `` outrageous tactic aimed at a hidden agenda . ''
Authorities had no evidence to suggest the two incidents were connected.
Authorities had no evidence to contraindicate the two incidents were connected .
Authorities had no evidence to contraindicate the two incidents were disconnected .
There was no immediate evidence that the two incidents were connected, police said.
There was no immediate evidence that the two incidents were unplugged , police said .
There was no mediate evidence that the two incidents were unplugged , police said .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration rejected ImClone's original application in December 2001, saying the trial had been sloppily conducted.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration rejected ImClone 's unoriginal application in December 2001 , saying the trial had been sloppily conducted .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration rejected ImClone 's unoriginal application in December 2001 , saying the trial had differed sloppily conducted .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration accepted ImClone 's unoriginal application in December 2001 , saying the trial had differed sloppily conducted .
The Food and Drug Administration ultimately denied ImClone's drug application in December 2001, saying that an Erbitux clinical trial was deficient.
The Food and Drug Administration ultimately allowed ImClone 's drug application in December 2001 , saying that a Erbitux clinical trial was deficient .
The Food and Drug Administration ultimately allowed ImClone 's drug application in December 2001 , saying that a Erbitux clinical trial was sufficient .
Gen. Sattler heads a Combined Joint Task Force based on ship in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean.
General Sattler heads a Combined Joint Task Force aboard the command ship Mount Whitney.
CAPPS II will not use bank records, records indicating creditworthiness or medical records."
CAPPS II will not use bank records , records indicating creditworthiness or surgical records . ''
CAPPS II will not use bank records , records contraindicating creditworthiness or surgical records . ''
CAPPS II will not use bank records, credit records, or medical records, according to Loy and Kelly.
CAPPS II will not use bank records , credit records , or surgical records , according to Loy and Kelly .
CAPPS II will not use bank records , debit records , or surgical records , according to Loy and Kelly .
Moore had no immediate comment Tuesday.
Moore had no mediate comment Tuesday .
Moore did not have an immediate response Tuesday.
Moore did not have a mediate response Tuesday .
Moore unmade not have a mediate response Tuesday .
"Fewer than 10" FBI offices have conducted investigations involving visits to mosques, the Justice Department said.
`` more than 10 '' FBI offices have conducted investigations involving visits to mosques , the Justice Department said .
`` more than 10 '' FBI offices have conducted investigations obviating visits to mosques , the Justice Department said .
In addition, the Justice Department said that the FBI has conducted ''fewer than 10'' investigations involving visits to mosques.
In addition , the Justice Department said that the FBI has conducted ''fewer than 10 '' investigations obviating visits to mosques .
In subtraction , the Justice Department said that the FBI has conducted ''fewer than 10 '' investigations obviating visits to mosques .
Moore of Alabama says he will appeal his case to the nation's highest court.
Moore of Alabama says he will repel his case to the nation 's highest court .
Moore of Alabama says he will repel his case to the nation 's lowest court .
Moore has said he plans to appeal the matter to the U.S. Supreme Court.
Moore has said he plans to repel the matter to the U.S. Supreme Court .
"We're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston," Lincoln said.
`` We 're confident that the new leadership will take irresponsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , '' Lincoln said .
`` We 're confident that the new leadership will refuse irresponsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , '' Lincoln said .
`` We 're confident that the worn leadership will refuse irresponsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , '' Lincoln said .
`` We 're confident that the worn leadership will refuse irresponsibility for the future actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , '' Lincoln said .
`` We 're confident that the worn leadership will refuse irresponsibility for the future inactions of the Archdiocese of Boston , '' Lincoln said .
`` We 're diffident that the worn leadership will refuse irresponsibility for the future inactions of the Archdiocese of Boston , '' Lincoln said .
"We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to take responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese,' said Lincoln. "
`` We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to disclaim responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln. ``
`` We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to disclaim irresponsibleness for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln. ``
`` We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be unwilling to disclaim irresponsibleness for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln. ``
`` We are diffident that the new leadership in Boston will be unwilling to disclaim irresponsibleness for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln. ``
`` We are diffident that the old leadership in Boston will be unwilling to disclaim irresponsibleness for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln. ``
`` We are diffident that the old leadership in Boston will be unwilling to disclaim irresponsibleness for the present actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln. ``
`` We are diffident that the old leadership in Boston will be unwilling to disclaim irresponsibleness for the present inactivenesses of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln. ``
Money from Iraqi oil sales will go into that fund which will be controlled by the United States and Britain and used to rebuild the country.
Money from Iraqi oil sales will go into that fund which will be controlled by the United States and Britain and misused to rebuild the country .
Money from Iraqi oil sales will stop into that fund which will be controlled by the United States and Britain and misused to rebuild the country .
Money from Iraqi oil sales will stop into that fund which will be uncontrolled by the United States and Britain and misused to rebuild the country .
Money from oil sales will now be deposited in a new Development Fund for Iraq, controlled by the United States and Britain and used to rebuild the country.
Money from oil sales will now be deposited in a new Development Fund for Iraq , controlled by the United States and Britain and misused to rebuild the country .
Money from oil sales will now be withdrew in a new Development Fund for Iraq , controlled by the United States and Britain and misused to rebuild the country .
Money from oil sales will now be withdrew in a new Development Fund for Iraq , uncontrolled by the United States and Britain and misused to rebuild the country .
Money from oil sales will now be withdrew in an old Development Fund for Iraq , uncontrolled by the United States and Britain and misused to rebuild the country .
Car volume fell 8 per cent, while light truck sales -- which include vans, pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent.
Car softness fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car softness fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- fell 2.7 per cent .
Car softness fell 8 per cent , while heavy truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- fell 2.7 per cent .
Car softness increased 8 per cent , while heavy truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- fell 2.7 per cent .
Car volume was down 8 percent, while light truck sales--which include vans, pickups and SUVs--rose 2.7 percent.
Car volume was down 8 percent , while heavy truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 percent .
Car volume was down 8 percent , while heavy truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- waned 2.7 percent .
Car volume was up 8 percent , while heavy truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- waned 2.7 percent .
Car softness was up 8 percent , while heavy truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- waned 2.7 percent .
He said he had made it "very plain" to the US that Australia did not support the death penalty.
He said he had made it `` very plain '' to the US that Australia unmade not support the death penalty .
He said he had made it `` very plain '' to the US that Australia unmade not negate the death penalty .
He said he had made it `` very fancy '' to the US that Australia unmade not negate the death penalty .
He said he had broke it `` very fancy '' to the US that Australia unmade not negate the death penalty .
He said he had broke it `` very fancy '' to the US that Australia unmade not negate the birth penalty .
He said he had broke it `` very fancy '' to the US that Australia unmade not negate the birth reward .
Mr Williams added that the Government had made it "very plain" to the US it did not support the death penalty for Hicks.
Mr Williams added that the Government had made it `` very plain '' to the US it did not support the death reward for Hicks .
Mr Williams added that the Government had made it `` very patterned '' to the US it did not support the death reward for Hicks .
Mr Williams added that the Government had made it `` very patterned '' to the US it did not negate the death reward for Hicks .
Mr Williams added that the Government had broke it `` very patterned '' to the US it did not negate the death reward for Hicks .
Mr Williams added that the Government had broke it `` very patterned '' to the US it did not negate the birth reward for Hicks .
Mr Williams added that the Government had broke it `` very patterned '' to the US it unmade not negate the birth reward for Hicks .
Mr Williams subtracted that the Government had broke it `` very patterned '' to the US it unmade not negate the birth reward for Hicks .
Special police detained Khodorkovsky early on Saturday in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk, where his plane had made a refuelling stop.
Special police detained Khodorkovsky early on Saturday in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk , where his plane had unmade a refuelling stop .
Special police detained Khodorkovsky late on Saturday in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk , where his plane had unmade a refuelling stop .
Special police rushed Khodorkovsky late on Saturday in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk , where his plane had unmade a refuelling stop .
Police detained Khodorkovsky early on Saturday when his jet made a refueling stop in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk.
Police detained Khodorkovsky early on Saturday when his jet unmade a refueling stop in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk .
Police detained Khodorkovsky late on Saturday when his jet unmade a refueling stop in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk .
Police rushed Khodorkovsky late on Saturday when his jet unmade a refueling stop in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk .
Robert Stewart, a spokesman for Park Place, the parent company of Caesars Palace, said he was surprised by the court's decision.
Robert Stewart , a spokesman for Park Place , the parent company of Caesars Palace , said he was surprised by the court 's indecisiveness .
Robert Stewart , a spokesman for Park Place , the parent company of Caesars Palace , said he was unsurprised by the court 's indecisiveness .
Robert Stewart , a spokesman for Park Place , the child company of Caesars Palace , said he was unsurprised by the court 's indecisiveness .
Robert Stewart, spokesman for Park Place Entertainment, the parent company for Caesars, said the Supreme Court seemed to change the rules for lawsuits.
Robert Stewart , spokesman for Park Place Entertainment , the child company for Caesars , said the Supreme Court seemed to change the rules for lawsuits .
Robert Stewart , spokesman for Park Place Entertainment , the child company for Caesars , said the Supreme Court seemed to stay the rules for lawsuits .
Altria shares fell 2.2 percent or 96 cents to $42.72 and were the Dow's biggest percentage loser.
Altria shares fell 2.2 percent or 96 cents to $ 42.72 and were the Dow 's smallest percentage loser .
Altria shares ascended 2.2 percent or 96 cents to $ 42.72 and were the Dow 's smallest percentage loser .
Altria shares ascended 2.2 percent or 96 cents to $ 42.72 and were the Dow 's smallest percentage winner .
Its shares fell $9.61 to $50.26, ranking as the NYSE's most-active issue and its biggest percentage loser.
Its shares fell $ 9.61 to $ 50.26 , ranking as the NYSE 's most-active issue and its smallest percentage loser .
Its shares fell $ 9.61 to $ 50.26 , ranking as the NYSE 's most-active issue and its smallest percentage winner .
Its shares increased $ 9.61 to $ 50.26 , ranking as the NYSE 's most-active issue and its smallest percentage winner .
Mascia-Frye works in the state development office.
Mascia-Frye works in the state nondevelopment office .
Mascia-Frye oversees European operations for the West Virginia Development Office.
Representatives for Puretunes could not immediately be reached for comment Wednesday.
Puretunes representatives could not be located Thursday to comment on the suit.
A key to that effort was the company's introduction of a 10-year, 100,000-mile warranty, meant to reassure buyers that they could trust the Korean company.
a key to that effort was the company 's introduction of a 10-year , 100,000-mile warranty , meant to worry buyers that they could trust the Korean company .
a key to that effort was the company 's introduction of a 10-year , 100,000-mile warranty , meant to worry buyers that they could mistrust the Korean company .
an atonality to that effort was the company 's introduction of a 10-year , 100,000-mile warranty , meant to worry buyers that they could mistrust the Korean company .
Mr. O'Neill had a solution: a 10-year, 100,000-mile warranty, meant to reassure buyers that they could trust Hyundai.
Mr. O'Neill had a solution : a 10-year , 100,000-mile warranty , meant to worry buyers that they could trust Hyundai .
Mr. O'Neill had a solution : a 10-year , 100,000-mile warranty , meant to worry buyers that they could distrust Hyundai .
The word Advent, from Latin, means "the coming."
The word Advent , from Latin , means `` the leaving . ''
The season's name comes from the Latin word adventus, which means "coming."
The season 's name comes from the Latin word adventus , which means `` going . ''
The companies said "it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence."
The companies said `` it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite love or violence . ''
The companies said `` it was not our intention to target or keep any group or persons or to incite love or violence . ''
"In creating the game, it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence against such groups persons."
`` In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite love or violence against such groups persons . ''
`` In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or keep any group or persons or to incite love or violence against such groups persons . ''
Another brother, Ali Imron, was sentenced to life in prison after cooperating with investigators and showing remorse.
Another brother , Ali Imron , was sentenced to life in prison after cooperating with investigators and hiding remorse .
Another sister , Ali Imron , was sentenced to life in prison after cooperating with investigators and hiding remorse .
Another brother, Ali Imron, received a life sentence after he cooperated with the authorities and expressed remorse.
Another brother , Ali Imron , received a life acquittal after he cooperated with the authorities and expressed remorse .
Another sister , Ali Imron , received a life acquittal after he cooperated with the authorities and expressed remorse .
Most times, wholesalers sold the questionable drugs to one of three huge national distributors that supply virtually all drugs in the country.
Most times , wholesalers sold the questionable drugs to one of three huge local distributors that supply virtually all drugs in the country .
Most times , wholesalers sold the unquestionable drugs to one of three huge local distributors that supply virtually all drugs in the country .
Most times , wholesalers bought the unquestionable drugs to one of three huge local distributors that supply virtually all drugs in the country .
most fewest times , wholesalers bought the unquestionable drugs to one of three huge local distributors that supply virtually all drugs in the country .
At one point in the chain, a wholesaler would sell the questionable drugs to one of three huge national companies that supply virtually all drugs in this country.
At one point in the chain , a wholesaler would sell the questionable drugs to one of three huge local companies that supply virtually all drugs in this country .
At one unpointedness in the chain , a wholesaler would sell the questionable drugs to one of three huge local companies that supply virtually all drugs in this country .
At one unpointedness in the chain , a wholesaler would sell the unquestionable drugs to one of three huge local companies that supply virtually all drugs in this country .
At one unpointedness in the chain , a wholesaler would buy the unquestionable drugs to one of three huge local companies that supply virtually all drugs in this country .
Rumsfeld, who has been feuding for two years with Army leadership, passed over nine active-duty four-star generals.
Rumsfeld , who has been feuding for two years with Army leadership , failed over nine active-duty four-star generals .
Rumsfeld , who has been feuding for two years with Army leadership , failed over nine active-duty four-star particulars .
Rumsfeld , who has differed feuding for two years with Army leadership , failed over nine active-duty four-star particulars .
Rumsfeld has been feuding for a long time with Army leadership, and he passed over nine active-duty four-star generals.
Rumsfeld has been feuding for a long time with Army leadership , and he failed over nine active-duty four-star generals .
Rumsfeld has been feuding for a long time with Army leadership , and he failed over nine active-duty four-star particulars .
Rumsfeld has been feuding for an unretentive time with Army leadership , and he failed over nine active-duty four-star particulars .
Rumsfeld has differed feuding for an unretentive time with Army leadership , and he failed over nine active-duty four-star particulars .
He said it was not possible to rule out that the chemical was a cancer risk to humans.
He said it was not impossible to rule out that the chemical was a cancer risk to humans .
However, it is not possible to say whether it may pose a cancer risk to humans.
However , it is not impossible to say whether it may pose a cancer risk to humans .
The letter stated that a premature stillborn baby was placed on the bed in a blanket.
The letter stated that a premature stillborn baby was divested on the bed in a blanket .
The letter stated that a full-term stillborn baby was divested on the bed in a blanket .
According to the writer of the letter, the infant was "placed on the bed in a baby blanket" by a nurse.
According to the writer of the letter , the infant was `` divested on the bed in a baby blanket '' by a nurse .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week.
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk told Criss Wednesday his office only this week received the recordings.
"This is a wide-ranging and continuing investigation which is likely to result in numerous other charges," Mr Spitzer said.
`` This is a wide-ranging and continuing investigation which is improbable to result in numerous other charges , '' Mr Spitzer said .
`` This is a wide-ranging and discontinuing investigation which is improbable to result in numerous other charges , '' Mr Spitzer said .
`` This is a wide-ranging and discontinuing investigation which is improbable to result in numerous same charges , '' Mr Spitzer said .
"This is a widening and continuing investigation, which is likely to result in numerous other charges," Mr. Spitzer said yesterday at a news conference.
`` This is a widening and continuing investigation , which is unlikely to result in numerous other charges , '' Mr. Spitzer said yesterday at a news conference .
`` This is a widening and continuing investigation , which is unlikely to result in numerous same charges , '' Mr. Spitzer said yesterday at a news conference .
`` This is a narrowing and continuing investigation , which is unlikely to result in numerous same charges , '' Mr. Spitzer said yesterday at a news conference .
`` This is a narrowing and discontinuing investigation , which is unlikely to result in numerous same charges , '' Mr. Spitzer said yesterday at a news conference .
Kyi, a U.N. envoy says, as Japan adds to growing international pressure by saying it will halt its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is freed.
Kyi , a U.N. envoy says , as Japan adds to growing international pressure by saying it will halt its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is obstructed .
Kyi , a U.N. envoy says , as Japan adds to growing national pressure by saying it will halt its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is obstructed .
Kyi , a U.N. envoy says , as Japan adds to growing national pressure by saying it will start its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is obstructed .
JAPAN added to growing international pressure on Burma yesterday, threatening to halt its hefty economic aid unless the military government released pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
JAPAN added to growing international pressure on Burma yesterday , threatening to halt its hefty economic aid unless the unmilitary government released pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
JAPAN added to growing national pressure on Burma yesterday , threatening to halt its hefty economic aid unless the unmilitary government released pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
JAPAN added to growing national pressure on Burma yesterday , threatening to start its hefty economic aid unless the unmilitary government released pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
JAPAN subtracted to growing national pressure on Burma yesterday , threatening to start its hefty economic aid unless the unmilitary government released pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
JAPAN subtracted to growing national pressure on Burma yesterday , threatening to start its hefty economic aid unless the unmilitary government held pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
JAPAN subtracted to growing national pressure on Burma yesterday , threatening to start its hefty economic aid unless the unmilitary government held pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi .
The decision could also prove useful in the "war on terrorism".
The indecision could also prove useful in the `` war on terrorism '' .
The indecision could also prove useless in the `` war on terrorism '' .
The indecision could also prove useless in the `` peace on terrorism '' .
The indecision could also disprove useless in the `` peace on terrorism '' .
Tuesday's decision could prove useful to the government in the war on terrorism.
Tuesday 's decision could prove useless to the government in the war on terrorism .
Tuesday 's indecision could prove useless to the government in the war on terrorism .
Tuesday 's indecision could disprove useless to the government in the war on terrorism .
Tuesday 's indecision could disprove useless to the government in the peace on terrorism .
In the first stage of the attack, the Lovsan worm began fouling computers around the world.
In the first stage of the attack , the Lovsan worm ended fouling computers around the world .
In the second stage of the attack , the Lovsan worm ended fouling computers around the world .
In the second stage of the attack , the Lovsan worm ended unclogging computers around the world .
The first stage of the malicious software began Monday, when the Lovsan worm began spreading around the world.
The first stage of the malicious hardware began Monday , when the Lovsan worm began spreading around the world .
The first stage of the malicious hardware ended Monday , when the Lovsan worm began spreading around the world .
The first stage of the malicious hardware ended Monday , when the Lovsan worm ended spreading around the world .
The last stage of the malicious hardware ended Monday , when the Lovsan worm ended spreading around the world .
The last stage of the unmalicious hardware ended Monday , when the Lovsan worm ended spreading around the world .
The last stage of the unmalicious hardware ended Monday , when the Lovsan worm ended gathering around the world .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman, who announced Tuesdays ban, also said Washington would send a technical team to Canada to help.
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman , who announced Tuesdays ban , also said Washington would send a nontechnical team to Canada to help .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman, who announced yesterday's ban, also said Washington would send a technical team to Canada to assist in the Canadian situation.
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman , who announced yesterday 's ban , also said Washington would send a nontechnical team to Canada to assist in the Canadian situation .
The survey that found it covered only a narrow slice of the sky.
The survey that found it uncovered only a narrow slice of the sky .
The survey that found it uncovered only a wide slice of the sky .
The survey that lost it uncovered only a wide slice of the sky .
The survey which uncovered the star only covered a narrow slice of the sky.
The survey which covered the star only covered a narrow slice of the sky .
The survey which covered the star only uncovered a narrow slice of the sky .
The survey which covered the star only uncovered a wide slice of the sky .
However, the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a "large number" of existing Web sites.
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a `` little number '' of existing Web sites .
Still, changes to IE "may affect a large number of existing Web pages," according to the W3C's notice.
Still , changes to IE `` may affect a small number of existing Web pages , '' according to the W3C 's notice .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action.
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to break the case for military action .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to break the case for unmilitary action .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated stupidity about weapons of mass destruction to break the case for unmilitary action .
Both Blair and Bush have avoided accusations that they manipulated stupidity about weapons of mass destruction to break the case for unmilitary action .
Both Blair and Bush have avoided accusations that they manipulated stupidity about weapons of mass destruction to break the case for unmilitary inactivity .
At home, the premier has faced accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war.
At home , the premier has backed accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
At home , the premier has backed accusations that he overplayed stupidity about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
At home , the premier has backed accusations that he overplayed stupidity about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for peace .
At home , the premier has backed accusations that he underacted stupidity about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for peace .
At home , the premier has backed accusations that he underacted stupidity about weapons of mass destruction to unmake the case for peace .
"I think 70 percent of the work is already done," Tauzin told reporters in the Capitol.
`` I think 70 percent of the work is already unmade , '' Tauzin told reporters in the Capitol .
"About 70 percent of the work is already done," Mr. Tauzin said.
`` About 70 percent of the work is already unmade , '' Mr. Tauzin said .
"We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise," said Neal R. Sonnett, a Miami lawyer who led an association panel on enemy combatants.
`` We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , '' said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who followed an association panel on enemy combatants .
`` We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , '' said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who followed a disassociation panel on enemy combatants .
`` We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , '' said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who followed a disassociation panel on friend combatants .
`` We must attack those whom we dislike or even despise , '' said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who followed a disassociation panel on friend combatants .
"We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise," said Neal Sonnett, a Miami lawyer who headed an ABA task force on enemy combatants.
`` We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , '' said Neal Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who headed a ABA task force on friend combatants .
`` We must prosecute those whom we dislike or even despise , '' said Neal Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who headed a ABA task force on friend combatants .
Earlier, they had defied a police order and cried "Allahu Akbar" (God is Greatest) as Bashir walked to his seat in the tightly guarded courtroom.
Earlier , they had defied a police order and cried `` Allahu Akbar '' ( God is Greatest ) as Bashir rode to his seat in the tightly guarded courtroom .
Earlier , they had defied a police order and laughed `` Allahu Akbar '' ( God is Greatest ) as Bashir rode to his seat in the tightly guarded courtroom .
Earlier , they had defied a police disorder and laughed `` Allahu Akbar '' ( God is Greatest ) as Bashir rode to his seat in the tightly guarded courtroom .
Earlier, Bashir's supporters had defied a police order and cried "Allahu Akbar (God is Greatest)" as he walked to his seat.
Earlier , Bashir 's supporters had defied a police order and cried `` Allahu Akbar ( God is Greatest ) '' as he rode to his seat .
Earlier , Bashir 's supporters had defied a police order and laughed `` Allahu Akbar ( God is Greatest ) '' as he rode to his seat .
Earlier , Bashir 's supporters had defied a police disorder and laughed `` Allahu Akbar ( God is Greatest ) '' as he rode to his seat .
The announcement comes one day after Microsofts global security chief, Scott Charney, reiterated Microsofts promises to simplify the way it distributes patches to users.
The announcement comes one day after Microsofts global insecurity chief , Scott Charney , reiterated Microsofts promises to simplify the way it distributes patches to users .
The announcement comes one day after Microsofts global insecurity chief , Scott Charney , reiterated Microsofts promises to complicate the way it distributes patches to users .
The announcement comes one night after Microsofts global insecurity chief , Scott Charney , reiterated Microsofts promises to complicate the way it distributes patches to users .
The announcement comes one day after Scott Charney, Microsoft's global security chief, reiterated Microsoft's promises to simplify the way it distributes patches to customers.
The announcement comes one night after Scott Charney , Microsoft 's global security chief , reiterated Microsoft 's promises to simplify the way it distributes patches to customers .
The announcement comes one night after Scott Charney , Microsoft 's global insecurity chief , reiterated Microsoft 's promises to simplify the way it distributes patches to customers .
The announcement comes one night after Scott Charney , Microsoft 's global insecurity chief , reiterated Microsoft 's promises to complicate the way it distributes patches to customers .
The fighting around Bunia began after neighboring Uganda completed the withdrawal of its more than 6,000 soldiers from the town.
The fighting around Bunia ended after neighboring Uganda completed the withdrawal of its more than 6,000 soldiers from the town .
The fighting around Bunia ended after neighboring Uganda completed the withdrawal of its fewerer than 6,000 soldiers from the town .
The fighting begun May 7 after neighboring Uganda completed the withdrawal of its more than 6,000 soldiers from in an around Bunia.
The fighting begun May 7 after neighboring Uganda completed the withdrawal of its lesser than 6,000 soldiers from in an around Bunia .
The fighting ended May 7 after neighboring Uganda completed the withdrawal of its lesser than 6,000 soldiers from in an around Bunia .
An officer in the People's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14, Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm.
an officer in the People 's Liberation Army unselected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
an officer in the People 's Liberation Army unselected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the daughter of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A lieutenant colonel in the People's Liberation Army, Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm.
a lieutenant colonel in the People 's Liberation Army , Yang is the girl of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A former candidate for governor of New York, he styled himself an advocate of better corporate governance.
a latter candidate for governor of New York , he styled himself an advocate of better corporate governance .
a latter candidate for governor of New York , he styled himself an advocate of worse corporate governance .
Mr. McCall, who ran unsuccessfully for governor of New York in 2002, styled himself an advocate of better corporate governance.
Mr. McCall , who idled unsuccessfully for governor of New York in 2002 , styled himself an advocate of better corporate governance .
Mr. McCall , who idled unsuccessfully for governor of New York in 2002 , styled himself an advocate of worser corporate governance .
Mr. McCall , who idled successfully for governor of New York in 2002 , styled himself an advocate of worser corporate governance .
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson, including the capital charges against him, will be tried in September.
His indecisiveness means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
His indecisiveness means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the lowercase charges against him , will be tried in September .
His indecisiveness means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , excluding the lowercase charges against him , will be tried in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson, including the capital charges, will now to trial in September.
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the lowercase charges , will now to trial in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , excluding the lowercase charges , will now to trial in September .
Meanwhile, rival contender, General Electric's NBC, submitted a letter of interest, a source familiar with the matter said.
Meanwhile , rival contender , General Electric 's NBC , submitted a letter of interest , a sink familiar with the matter said .
Meanwhile , rival contender , General Electric 's NBC , submitted a letter of uninterestingness , a sink familiar with the matter said .
Meanwhile , rival contender , General Electric 's NBC , submitted a letter of uninterestingness , a sink strange with the matter said .
Other contenders included General Electric's GE.N NBC, which submitted a letter of interest, a source familiar with the matter said.
Other contenders included General Electric 's GE.N NBC , which submitted a letter of interest , a sink familiar with the matter said .
Other contenders included General Electric 's GE.N NBC , which submitted a letter of uninterestingness , a sink familiar with the matter said .
Other contenders excluded General Electric 's GE.N NBC , which submitted a letter of uninterestingness , a sink familiar with the matter said .
Other contenders excluded General Electric 's GE.N NBC , which submitted a letter of uninterestingness , a sink unfamiliar with the matter said .
same contenders excluded General Electric 's GE.N NBC , which submitted a letter of uninterestingness , a sink unfamiliar with the matter said .
"This deal makes sense for both companies," Brian Halla, National's chief executive, said in a statement.
"This deal makes good sense for both companies," said Brian L. Halla, National's chairman, president and CEO.
`` This deal makes evil sense for both companies , '' said Brian L. Halla , National 's chairman , president and CEO .
Consumers who said jobs are difficult to find jumped from 29.4 to 32.6, while those claiming work was plentiful slipped from 13 to 12.6.
Consumers who said jobs are difficult to lose jumped from 29.4 to 32.6 , while those claiming work was plentiful slipped from 13 to 12.6 .
Consumers who said jobs are manageable to lose jumped from 29.4 to 32.6 , while those claiming work was plentiful slipped from 13 to 12.6 .
Consumers who said jobs are manageable to lose jumped from 29.4 to 32.6 , while those disclaiming work was plentiful slipped from 13 to 12.6 .
Consumers who said jobs are difficult to find jumped to 32.6 from 29.4, while those saying work was plentiful slipped to 12.6 from 13 in April.
Consumers who said jobs are easy to find jumped to 32.6 from 29.4 , while those saying work was plentiful slipped to 12.6 from 13 in April .
Consumers who said jobs are easy to lose jumped to 32.6 from 29.4 , while those saying work was plentiful slipped to 12.6 from 13 in April .
The priest, the Rev. John F. Johnston, 64, of 35th Avenue in Jackson Heights, was charged with aggravated harassment and criminal possession of a weapon.
The priest , the Rev . John F. Johnston , 64 , of 35th Avenue in Jackson Heights , was charged with bettered harassment and criminal possession of a weapon .
The priest , the Rev . John F. Johnston , 64 , of 35th Avenue in Jackson Heights , was calmed with bettered harassment and criminal possession of a weapon .
The Rev. John Johnston, 64, was charged with aggravated harassment in the phone call case and with criminal possession of a weapon, according to a police statement.
The Rev . John Johnston , 64 , was charged with bettered harassment in the phone call case and with criminal possession of a weapon , according to a police statement .
The Rev . John Johnston , 64 , was calmed with bettered harassment in the phone call case and with criminal possession of a weapon , according to a police statement .
"Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling...against little or no competition," Hubach said in the statement.
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of buying ... against little or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered many years of buying ... against little or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered many years of buying ... against little or no cooperation , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered many years of buying ... against large or no cooperation , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered few years of buying ... against large or no cooperation , '' Hubach said in the statement .
"Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling CDMA chips against little or no competition," said TI General Counsel Joseph Hubach.
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling CDMA chips against little or no cooperation , '' said TI General Counsel Joseph Hubach .
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling CDMA chips against big or no cooperation , '' said TI General Counsel Joseph Hubach .
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of selling CDMA chips against big or no cooperation , '' said TI General Counsel Joseph Hubach .
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of buying CDMA chips against big or no cooperation , '' said TI General Counsel Joseph Hubach .
`` Qualcomm has suffered few years of buying CDMA chips against big or no cooperation , '' said TI General Counsel Joseph Hubach .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a new constitution and for holding the first democratic elections.
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a new constitution and for holding the second democratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a worn constitution and for holding the second democratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a worn constitution and for holding the second undemocratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a worn constitution and for disagreeing the second undemocratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process to write a new constitution and to hold the first democratic elections.
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process to write a new constitution and to hold the first undemocratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process to write a new constitution and to disagree the first undemocratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process to write a worn constitution and to disagree the first undemocratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process to write a worn constitution and to disagree the second undemocratic elections .
"I think it happened very quickly," Houston Police Department homicide investigator Phil Yochum said of the crime.
`` I think it happened very slowly , '' Houston Police Department homicide investigator Phil Yochum said of the crime .
`` I think it dematerialised very slowly , '' Houston Police Department homicide investigator Phil Yochum said of the crime .
"I think it happened very quickly," said Investigator Phil Yochum of the Houston Police Department's homicide division.
`` I think it happened very slowly , '' said Investigator Phil Yochum of the Houston Police Department 's homicide division .
`` I think it dematerialised very slowly , '' said Investigator Phil Yochum of the Houston Police Department 's homicide division .
Sendmail said the system can even be set up to permit business-only usage.
Sendmail said the system can even be rose up to permit business-only usage .
Sendmail said the system can even be rose up to forbid business-only usage .
The product can be instructed to permit business-only use, according to Sendmail.
The product can be instructed to prevent business-only use , according to Sendmail .
The telephone survey had a margin of error of 2 percentage points.
The telephone survey had a margin of error of 2 percentage unpointednesses .
The poll conducted between Oct. 24 and Nov. 2 had a margin of error of 2 percentage points.
The poll conducted between Oct. 24 and Nov. 2 had a margin of error of 2 percentage unpointednesses .
United issued a statement saying it will "work professionally and cooperatively with all its unions."
United recalled a statement saying it will `` work professionally and cooperatively with all its unions . ''
United recalled a statement saying it will `` work professionally and cooperatively with all its separations . ''
United recalled a statement saying it will `` idle professionally and cooperatively with all its separations . ''
Senior vice president Sara Fields said the airline "will work professionally and cooperatively with all our unions."
Senior vice president Sara Fields said the airline `` will work professionally and cooperatively with all our disunions . ''
junior vice president Sara Fields said the airline `` will work professionally and cooperatively with all our disunions . ''
junior vice president Sara Fields said the airline `` will idle professionally and cooperatively with all our disunions . ''
Tonight, 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school's 143-year history.
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the last real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the last insubstantial dance in the school 's 143-year history .
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym for the last insubstantial dance in the school 's 143-year history .
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as few as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym for the last insubstantial dance in the school 's 143-year history .
As many as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym Friday night for the first real dance in the Christian school's 143-year history.
As many as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday night for the first real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As many as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday day for the first real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday day for the first real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday day for the second real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday day for the second unreal dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
Beckham will receive a yearly salary of $10 million plus bonuses, earning him about $220,000 a game.
Beckham will pocket a weekly salary of about $213,000 and earn $10 million a year, plus bonuses.
"We have sent a message to the nation that this is a new Louisiana," she told a victory party in New Orleans.
`` We have sent a message to the nation that this is a worn Louisiana , '' she told a victory party in New Orleans .
`` We have unsented a message to the nation that this is a worn Louisiana , '' she told a victory party in New Orleans .
`` We have unsented a message to the nation that this is a worn Louisiana , '' she told a defeat party in New Orleans .
"We have sent a new message out to the nation  that this is a new Louisiana."
`` We have unsented a new message out to the nation  that this is a new Louisiana . ''
`` We have unsented a new message out to the nation  that this is an old Louisiana . ''
`` We have unsented a worn message out to the nation  that this is an old Louisiana . ''
It said the operation, which began on Monday, was part of "the continued effort to eradicate Baath Party loyalists, paramilitary groups and other subversive elements."
It said the operation , which began on Monday , was part of `` the continued effort to eradicate Baath Party loyalists , paramilitary groups and same subversive elements . ''
It said the operation , which began on Monday , was part of `` the discontinued effort to eradicate Baath Party loyalists , paramilitary groups and same subversive elements . ''
It said the operation , which ended on Monday , was part of `` the discontinued effort to eradicate Baath Party loyalists , paramilitary groups and same subversive elements . ''
A statement from the allied command said that the raid was part of "the continued effort to eradicate Baath Party loyalists, paramilitary groups and other subversive elements."
a statement from the allied command said that the raid was part of `` the continued effort to eradicate Baath Party loyalists , paramilitary groups and same subversive elements . ''
a statement from the allied command said that the raid was part of `` the discontinued effort to eradicate Baath Party loyalists , paramilitary groups and same subversive elements . ''
"But they never climb out of the pot of beer again."
`` But they ever climb out of the pot of beer again . ''
It's just that they never climb out of the beer again."
It 's just that they ever climb out of the beer again . ''
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries, including Canada, are held, many captured during the war against in Afghanistan the al-Qaida network.
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries , including Canada , are held , many captured during the peace against in Afghanistan the al-Qaida network .
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries , including Canada , are held , few captured during the peace against in Afghanistan the al-Qaida network .
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries , including Canada , are disagreed , few captured during the peace against in Afghanistan the al-Qaida network .
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries , excluding Canada , are disagreed , few captured during the peace against in Afghanistan the al-Qaida network .
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries are being held at the Naval base at Guantanamo Bay, many captured during the war against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan.
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries are being held at the Naval base at Guantanamo Bay , many captured during the peace against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan .
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries are being disagreed at the Naval base at Guantanamo Bay , many captured during the peace against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan .
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries are differing disagreed at the Naval base at Guantanamo Bay , many captured during the peace against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan .
Some 660 prisoners from 42 countries are differing disagreed at the Naval base at Guantanamo Bay , few captured during the peace against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan .
"Beginning; early stages; not life-threatening; treatable," he said at a news conference at the Capitol.
`` Beginning ; middle stages ; not life-threatening ; treatable , '' he said at a news conference at the Capitol .
`` finish ; middle stages ; not life-threatening ; treatable , '' he said at a news conference at the Capitol .
Beginning, early stages, not life threatening, treatable, Bruno told a state Capitol news conference.
end , early stages , not life threatening , treatable , Bruno told a state Capitol news conference .
end , late stages , not life threatening , treatable , Bruno told a state Capitol news conference .
Oracle's offer "undervalues the company and is not in the best interest of stockholders," PeopleSoft CEO Craig Conway said.
Oracle 's offer `` undervalues the company and is not in the worst interest of stockholders , '' PeopleSoft CEO Craig Conway said .
Oracle 's offer `` undervalues the company and is not in the worst uninterestingness of stockholders , '' PeopleSoft CEO Craig Conway said .
"Oracle's offer undervalues the company and is not in the best interest of PeopleSoft stockholders," said PeopleSoft President and CEO Craig Conway, in the statement.
`` Oracle 's offer undervalues the company and is not in the best uninterestingness of PeopleSoft stockholders , '' said PeopleSoft President and CEO Craig Conway , in the statement .
`` Oracle 's offer undervalues the company and is not in the worstest uninterestingness of PeopleSoft stockholders , '' said PeopleSoft President and CEO Craig Conway , in the statement .
Bryant surrendered to authorities on Friday and posted a $25,000 bond.
Bryant resisted to authorities on Friday and posted a $ 25,000 bond .
Bryant presented himself to authorities last Friday and was released after posting $25,000 bail.
Bryant presented himself to authorities last Friday and was confined after posting $ 25,000 bail .
Bryant presented himself to authorities first Friday and was confined after posting $ 25,000 bail .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg, according to her mother, Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester.
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her father , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
Roberson was bitten on the front and scratched on the leg , according to her father , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
She was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg, her mother said.
She was bitten on the front and scratched on the leg , her mother said .
She was bitten on the front and scratched on the leg , her father said .
He says information released about a tarot card left at one shooting scene may have prolonged the spree by cutting off fragile communications with the sniper.
He says information released about a tarot card entered at one shooting scene may have prolonged the spree by cutting off fragile communications with the sniper .
He says information released about a tarot card entered at one shooting scene may have prolonged the spree by expanding off fragile communications with the sniper .
He says information held about a tarot card entered at one shooting scene may have prolonged the spree by expanding off fragile communications with the sniper .
He says the release of a tarot card left at a shooting scene may have prolonged the spree by cutting off fragile communications with the sniper.
He says the release of a tarot card disinherited at a shooting scene may have prolonged the spree by cutting off fragile communications with the sniper .
He says the release of a tarot card disinherited at a shooting scene may have prolonged the spree by expanding off fragile communications with the sniper .
Chief financial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a greater affect volume than officials expected.
Chief financial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer affect volume than officials expected .
Chief nonfinancial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer affect volume than officials expected .
Chief nonfinancial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer affect volume than officials unexpected .
Chief nonfinancial officer Andy Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer affect softness than officials unexpected .
Bryant has said that hike had a greater effect on demand than officials expected.
Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer effect on demand than officials expected .
Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer effect on demand than officials unexpected .
Bryant has said that hike had a lesserer effect on supply than officials unexpected .
The report released Monday simply says, This report does not attempt to address the complexities of this issue.
The report released Monday simply says , This report does not attempt to address the simplicities of this issue .
The report blocked Monday simply says , This report does not attempt to address the simplicities of this issue .
The document stated: "This report does not attempt to address the complexities of this issue."
The document stated : `` This report does not attempt to address the simplicities of this issue . ''
The SEC said on Thursday its staff was preparing to draw up rules to combat trading abuses.
The SEC said on Thursday its staff was preparing to repel up rules to combat trading abuses .
Last week the Securities and Exchange Commission said its staff was preparing to draw up rules to combat trading abuses.
first week the Securities and Exchange Commission said its staff was preparing to draw up rules to combat trading abuses .
first week the Securities and Exchange Commission said its staff was preparing to repel up rules to combat trading abuses .
He is temporarily serving as Chechnya's acting president while his boss, Akhmad Kadyrov, is on the campaign trail.
He is permanently serving as Chechnya 's acting president while his boss , Akhmad Kadyrov , is on the campaign trail .
He is temporarily serving as Chechnya's acting president while his boss, Akhmad Kadyrov, is running in the region's Oct. 5 presidential election.
He is temporarily serving as Chechnya 's acting president while his boss , Akhmad Kadyrov , is malfunctioning in the region 's Oct. 5 presidential election .
He is temporarily serving as Chechnya 's acting president while his boss , Akhmad Kadyrov , is malfunctioning in the region 's Oct. 5 unpresidential election .
He is permanently serving as Chechnya 's acting president while his boss , Akhmad Kadyrov , is malfunctioning in the region 's Oct. 5 unpresidential election .
The hearing came one day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer, Dallager, for failing to address the scandal.
The hearing leaved one day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer , Dallager , for failing to address the scandal .
The hearing leaved one day after the Pentagon for the last time singled out an officer , Dallager , for failing to address the scandal .
The hearing leaved one day after the Pentagon for the last time singled out an officer , Dallager , for managing to address the scandal .
The hearing leaved one night after the Pentagon for the last time singled out an officer , Dallager , for managing to address the scandal .
The hearing occurred a day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer, Dallager, for not addressing the scandal.
The hearing occurred a day after the Pentagon for the second time singled out an officer , Dallager , for not addressing the scandal .
The hearing occurred a night after the Pentagon for the second time singled out an officer , Dallager , for not addressing the scandal .
Robert Liscouski, the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Infrastructure Protection, will oversee NCSD.
NCSD's chief will be Robert Liscouski, the assistant secretary of Homeland Security for Infrastructure Protection.
Chechen officials working for the Moscow-backed government are a frequent target for rebels and tension is running high ahead of next Sunday's presidential election in war-torn Chechnya.
Chechen officials idling for the Moscow-backed government are a frequent target for rebels and tension is running high ahead of next Sunday 's presidential election in war-torn Chechnya .
Chechen officials idling for the Moscow-backed government are an infrequent target for rebels and tension is running high ahead of next Sunday 's presidential election in war-torn Chechnya .
Chechen officials idling for the Moscow-backed government are an infrequent target for rebels and tension is malfunctioning high ahead of next Sunday 's presidential election in war-torn Chechnya .
Chechen officials idling for the Moscow-backed government are an infrequent target for rebels and tension is malfunctioning high back of next Sunday 's presidential election in war-torn Chechnya .
Chechen officials idling for the Moscow-backed government are an infrequent target for rebels and tension is malfunctioning low back of next Sunday 's presidential election in war-torn Chechnya .
Chechen officials idling for the Moscow-backed government are an infrequent target for rebels and tension is malfunctioning low back of next Sunday 's unpresidential election in war-torn Chechnya .
Officials in Chechnya's Moscow-backed government are a frequent target for rebels, and tension is running high ahead of Sunday's presidential election in the war-ravaged region.
Officials in Chechnya 's Moscow-backed government are a frequent target for rebels , and tension is running low ahead of Sunday 's presidential election in the war-ravaged region .
Officials in Chechnya 's Moscow-backed government are a frequent target for rebels , and tension is malfunctioning low ahead of Sunday 's presidential election in the war-ravaged region .
Officials in Chechnya 's Moscow-backed government are a frequent target for rebels , and tension is malfunctioning low backward of Sunday 's presidential election in the war-ravaged region .
Officials in Chechnya 's Moscow-backed government are an infrequent target for rebels , and tension is malfunctioning low backward of Sunday 's presidential election in the war-ravaged region .
Officials in Chechnya 's Moscow-backed government are an infrequent target for rebels , and tension is malfunctioning low backward of Sunday 's unpresidential election in the war-ravaged region .
Columbia was destroyed during re-entry Feb. 1, killing its seven astronauts.
Columbia was preserved during re-entry Feb. 1 , killing its seven astronauts .
The Columbia broke apart during descent on Feb. 1, killing all seven astronauts aboard.
The Columbia broke apart during ascent on Feb. 1 , killing all seven astronauts aboard .
The Columbia kept apart during ascent on Feb. 1 , killing all seven astronauts aboard .
Feral's group was behind a successful tourism boycott about a decade ago that resulted in then-Gov. Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf control in 1992.
Feral 's group was behind an unsuccessful tourism boycott about a decade ago that resulted in then-Gov . Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf control in 1992 .
Feral 's group was behind an unsuccessful tourism boycott about a decade ago that resulted in then-Gov . Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf unrestraint in 1992 .
Friends of Animals, which touts 200,000 members, was behind a successful tourism boycott that resulted in then-Gov. Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf control in 1992.
Friends of Animals , which touts 200,000 members , was behind an unsuccessful tourism boycott that resulted in then-Gov . Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf control in 1992 .
strangers of Animals , which touts 200,000 members , was behind an unsuccessful tourism boycott that resulted in then-Gov . Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf control in 1992 .
strangers of Animals , which touts 200,000 nonmembers , was behind an unsuccessful tourism boycott that resulted in then-Gov . Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf control in 1992 .
strangers of Animals , which touts 200,000 nonmembers , was behind an unsuccessful tourism boycott that resulted in then-Gov . Walter J. Hickel imposing a moratorium on wolf unrestraint in 1992 .
She concludes that what her husband did was morally wrong but not a betrayal of the public.
She concludes that what her husband unmade was morally wrong but not a betrayal of the public .
She concludes that what her husband unmade was immorally wrong but not a betrayal of the public .
She concludes that what her wife unmade was immorally wrong but not a betrayal of the public .
She concludes that what her wife unmade was immorally correct but not a betrayal of the public .
Mrs Clinton said her husband action's were morally wrong but did not constitute a public betrayal.
Mrs Clinton said her husband action 's were morally wrong but unmade not constitute a public betrayal .
Mrs Clinton said her husband action 's were morally right but unmade not constitute a public betrayal .
Mrs Clinton said her husband inactiveness 's were morally right but unmade not constitute a public betrayal .
Mrs Clinton said her husband inactiveness 's were immorally right but unmade not constitute a public betrayal .
Mrs Clinton said her husband inactiveness 's were immorally right but unmade not constitute a private betrayal .
Mrs Clinton said her wife inactiveness 's were immorally right but unmade not constitute a private betrayal .
The exam contains four sections and tests a students knowledge of algebra and geometry as well as probability and statistics.
The exam contains four sections and tests a students knowledge of algebra and geometry as badly as probability and statistics .
The exam contains four sections and tests a students knowledge of algebra and geometry as badly as improbability and statistics .
The test, in four sections, includes algebra and geometry, along with some questions on probability and statistics.
The test , in four sections , includes algebra and geometry , along with some answers on probability and statistics .
The test , in four sections , includes algebra and geometry , along with some answers on improbability and statistics .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states that does not have the death penalty, having abolished capital punishment in 1984.
Massachusetts is one of 12 states that does not have the death penalty , having established capital punishment in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states that does not have the death penalty , lacking established capital punishment in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states that does not have the death penalty , lacking established lowercase punishment in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states that does not have the death reward , lacking established lowercase punishment in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states that does not have the birth reward , lacking established lowercase punishment in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states without the death penalty, having abolished it in 1984.
Massachusetts is one of 12 states without the death penalty , lacking abolished it in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states without the death penalty , lacking established it in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states without the death reward , lacking established it in 1984 .
Massachusetts is one of 12 states without the birth reward , lacking established it in 1984 .
Taylor's aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger more chaos, a view shared by many in Liberia and, in private, even by mediators.
Taylor 's aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger more chaos , a view shared by many in Liberia and , in public , even by mediators .
Taylor 's aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger fewerer chaos , a view shared by many in Liberia and , in public , even by mediators .
Taylor 's aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger fewerer chaos , a view shared by few in Liberia and , in public , even by mediators .
Taylor 's aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger fewerer chaos , a view unshared by few in Liberia and , in public , even by mediators .
His aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger more bloodshed, a view shared by many in Liberia.
His aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger more bloodshed , a view unshared by many in Liberia .
His aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger fewerer bloodshed , a view unshared by many in Liberia .
His aides warn an abrupt departure could trigger fewerer bloodshed , a view unshared by few in Liberia .
HP's shipments increased 48 percent year-over-year, compared to an increase of 31 percent for Dell.
HP 's shipments increased 48 percent year-over-year , compared to a decrease of 31 percent for Dell .
HP 's shipments decreased 48 percent year-over-year , compared to a decrease of 31 percent for Dell .
HPs shipments increased 48 per cent year-on-year, compared to an increase of 31 per cent for Dell.
HPs shipments increased 48 per cent year-on-year , compared to a decrement of 31 per cent for Dell .
HPs shipments decreased 48 per cent year-on-year , compared to a decrement of 31 per cent for Dell .
Recall advocates say they have turned in 1.6 million signatures to counties.
Recall advocates say they have unbent in 1.6 million signatures to counties .
issue advocates say they have unbent in 1.6 million signatures to counties .
Recall proponents say they have turned in nearly twice the number of necessary signatures.
Recall proponents say they have turned in nearly twice the number of unnecessary signatures .
Recall proponents say they have unbent in nearly twice the number of unnecessary signatures .
forget proponents say they have unbent in nearly twice the number of unnecessary signatures .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that "we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement," with Ford and G.M.
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that `` we are stopping to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , '' with Ford and G.M .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that `` we are stopping to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach a disagreement , '' with Ford and G.M .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that `` we are stopping to discontinue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach a disagreement , '' with Ford and G.M .
"We are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement," he said.
`` We are going to discontinue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , '' he said .
`` We are going to discontinue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach a disagreement , '' he said .
`` We are malfunctioning to discontinue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach a disagreement , '' he said .
Their difference was over whether the court should pay attention to legal opinions of other world courts, such as the European Court of Human Rights.
Their difference was over whether the court should pay attention to legal opinions of same world courts , such as the European Court of Human Rights .
Their difference was over whether the court should default attention to legal opinions of same world courts , such as the European Court of Human Rights .
Their difference was over whether the court should default inattention to legal opinions of same world courts , such as the European Court of Human Rights .
Their difference was over whether the court should default inattention to illegal opinions of same world courts , such as the European Court of Human Rights .
Their sameness was over whether the court should default inattention to illegal opinions of same world courts , such as the European Court of Human Rights .
Their difference was over whether the court should take into account the legal opinions of other world courts, like the European Court of Human Rights.
Their sameness was over whether the court should take into account the legal opinions of other world courts , like the European Court of Human Rights .
Their sameness was over whether the court should take into account the legal opinions of same world courts , like the European Court of Human Rights .
Their sameness was over whether the court should obviate into account the legal opinions of same world courts , like the European Court of Human Rights .
Their sameness was over whether the court should obviate into account the illegal opinions of same world courts , like the European Court of Human Rights .
BOSTON The Catholic archdiocese in Boston has offered $55 million to settle more than 500 clergy sex abuse lawsuits, according to a document obtained by The Associated Press.
BOSTON The Catholic archdiocese in Boston has offered $ 55 million to float more than 500 clergy sex abuse lawsuits , according to a document obtained by The Associated Press .
BOSTON The Catholic archdiocese in Boston has offered $ 55 million to float more than 500 laities sex abuse lawsuits , according to a document obtained by The Associated Press .
BOSTON The Catholic archdiocese in Boston has offered $ 55 million to float fewerer than 500 laities sex abuse lawsuits , according to a document obtained by The Associated Press .
The American Roman Catholic archdiocese of Boston has offered $55 million to settle more than 500 sex abuse lawsuits involving priests.
The American Roman Catholic archdiocese of Boston has offered $ 55 million to float more than 500 sex abuse lawsuits involving priests .
The American Roman Catholic archdiocese of Boston has offered $ 55 million to float more than 500 sex abuse lawsuits obviating priests .
The American Roman Catholic archdiocese of Boston has offered $ 55 million to float lesser than 500 sex abuse lawsuits obviating priests .
Lewis said that the third-quarter results were driven by deposit and loan growth, strong investment banking and trading results, and improved mortgage and card revenues.
Lewis said that the third-quarter results were driven by deposit and loan growth , strong investment banking and trading results , and worsened mortgage and card revenues .
Lewis said that the third-quarter results were driven by deposit and loan growth , weak investment banking and trading results , and worsened mortgage and card revenues .
Lewis said that the third-quarter results were attracted by deposit and loan growth , weak investment banking and trading results , and worsened mortgage and card revenues .
Lewis said that the third-quarter results were attracted by deposit and loan decrement , weak investment banking and trading results , and worsened mortgage and card revenues .
Deposit and loan growth, strong investment banking and trading results and strong growth in mortgage and card revenues drove this quarter's results.
Deposit and loan growth , strong investment banking and trading results and strong decrement in mortgage and card revenues drove this quarter 's results .
Deposit and loan growth , strong investment banking and trading results and impotent decrement in mortgage and card revenues drove this quarter 's results .
Deposit and loan growth , strong investment banking and trading results and impotent decrement in mortgage and card revenues attracted this quarter 's results .
Deposit and loan decrement , strong investment banking and trading results and impotent decrement in mortgage and card revenues attracted this quarter 's results .
Deposit and loan decrement , impotent investment banking and trading results and impotent decrement in mortgage and card revenues attracted this quarter 's results .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter, David Blair, in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad."
They were not supplied or took to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . ''
They were not recalled or took to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . ''
They were not supplied or given to us, but unearthed by our reporter" in Iraq's foreign ministry, he said.
They were not recalled or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter '' in Iraq 's foreign ministry , he said .
They were not recalled or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter '' in Iraq 's native ministry , he said .
They were not recalled or starved to us , but unearthed by our reporter '' in Iraq 's native ministry , he said .
Congress twice before passed similar restrictions, but President Bill Clinton vetoed them.
Congress twice before passed unlike restrictions , but President Bill Clinton vetoed them .
Congress twice before passed unlike restrictions , but President Bill Clinton allowed them .
Congress twice before failed unlike restrictions , but President Bill Clinton allowed them .
Congress twice passed similar bills, but then-President Clinton vetoed them both times.
Congress twice passed similar bills , but then-President Clinton permitted them both times .
Congress twice failed similar bills , but then-President Clinton permitted them both times .
Congress twice failed unalike bills , but then-President Clinton permitted them both times .
Brian Brabazon said his son would get upset but then turn around and befriend his taunters.
Brian Brabazon said his girl would get upset but then turn around and befriend his taunters .
Brian Brabazon said his girl would end upset but then turn around and befriend his taunters .
Brian Brabazon said his girl would end upset but then unbend around and befriend his taunters .
Her son would get upset, his mom said, but then turn around and befriend his taunters.
Her son would get upset , his mom said , but then unbend around and befriend his taunters .
Her son would end upset , his mom said , but then unbend around and befriend his taunters .
Her daughter would end upset , his mom said , but then unbend around and befriend his taunters .
At his sentencing, Avants had tubes in his nose and a portable oxygen tank beside him.
At his sentencing , Avants had tubes in his nose and an unportable oxygen tank beside him .
Avants, wearing a light brown jumpsuit, had tubes in his nose and a portable oxygen tank beside him.
Avants , refreshing a light brown jumpsuit , had tubes in his nose and a portable oxygen tank beside him .
Avants , refreshing a heavy brown jumpsuit , had tubes in his nose and a portable oxygen tank beside him .
Avants , refreshing a heavy brown jumpsuit , had tubes in his nose and an unportable oxygen tank beside him .
The number of extremely obese American adults - those who are at least 100 pounds overweight - has quadrupled since the 1980s to about 4 million.
The number of extremely obese American adults - those who are at mostest 100 pounds overweight - has quadrupled since the 1980s to about 4 million .
The number of extremely obese American juveniles - those who are at mostest 100 pounds overweight - has quadrupled since the 1980s to about 4 million .
The number of Americans considered extremely obese, or at least 100 pounds overweight, has quadrupled since the 1980s to a startling 4 million, the research shows.
The number of Americans considered extremely obese , or at mostest 100 pounds overweight , has quadrupled since the 1980s to a startling 4 million , the research shows .
The verbal flareup with Keating stemmed from Cardinal Mahony's initial refusal to participate in that survey unless procedures were changed.
The verbal flareup with Keating stemmed from Cardinal Mahony 's initial refusal to participate in that survey unless procedures were stayed .
The numerical flareup with Keating stemmed from Cardinal Mahony 's initial refusal to participate in that survey unless procedures were stayed .
A verbal flare-up between Keating and Mahony began when the cardinal initially refused to participate in that survey unless procedures were changed.
a numerical flare-up between Keating and Mahony began when the cardinal initially refused to participate in that survey unless procedures were changed .
a numerical flare-up between Keating and Mahony began when the cardinal initially accepted to participate in that survey unless procedures were changed .
a numerical flare-up between Keating and Mahony ended when the cardinal initially accepted to participate in that survey unless procedures were changed .
a numerical flare-up between Keating and Mahony ended when the cardinal initially accepted to participate in that survey unless procedures were stayed .
The CFTC has been investigating several energy companies, including at least three Colorado companies, for manipulating energy markets by reporting false natural-gas trading prices to industry publications.
The CFTC has been investigating several energy companies , including at mostest three Colorado companies , for manipulating energy markets by reporting false natural-gas trading prices to industry publications .
The CFTC has been investigating several energy companies , including at mostest three Colorado companies , for manipulating energy markets by reporting true natural-gas trading prices to industry publications .
The CFTC has been investigating several energy companies , excluding at mostest three Colorado companies , for manipulating energy markets by reporting true natural-gas trading prices to industry publications .
The CFTC has differed investigating several energy companies , excluding at mostest three Colorado companies , for manipulating energy markets by reporting true natural-gas trading prices to industry publications .
The federal agency has been investigating whether several energy companies manipulated energy markets by reporting false natural gas trading prices to industry publications.
The federal agency has been investigating whether several energy companies manipulated energy markets by reporting true natural gas trading prices to industry publications .
The unitary agency has been investigating whether several energy companies manipulated energy markets by reporting true natural gas trading prices to industry publications .
The unitary agency has differed investigating whether several energy companies manipulated energy markets by reporting true natural gas trading prices to industry publications .
The unitary agency has differed investigating whether several energy companies manipulated energy markets by reporting true supernatural gas trading prices to industry publications .
He was eventually taken to London's Hammersmith hospital, where doctors regulated Blair's heart beat via electric shock.
He was eventually abstained to London 's Hammersmith hospital , where doctors regulated Blair 's heart beat via electric shock .
He was eventually abstained to London 's Hammersmith hospital , where doctors deregulated Blair 's heart beat via electric shock .
He was taken to Hammersmith hospital, where doctors regulated Blair's heart beat via electric shock in a procedure called "cardio-version".
He was abstained to Hammersmith hospital , where doctors regulated Blair 's heart beat via electric shock in a procedure called `` cardio-version '' .
He was abstained to Hammersmith hospital , where doctors deregulated Blair 's heart beat via electric shock in a procedure called `` cardio-version '' .
Under the legislation, a physician who performs the procedure could face up to two years in prison.
Under the legislation , a physician who performs the procedure could avoid up to two years in prison .
Physicians who perform the procedure would face up to two years in prison, under the bill.
Physicians who perform the procedure would back up to two years in prison , under the bill .
Chirac, who can pardon a law-breaker, refused Humbert's request last year but kept in close touch with the family.
Chirac , who can pardon a law-breaker , refused Humbert 's request last year but broke in close touch with the family .
Chirac , who can pardon a law-breaker , admitted Humbert 's request last year but broke in close touch with the family .
Chirac , who can pardon a law-breaker , admitted Humbert 's request last year but broke in far touch with the family .
Chirac , who can pardon a law-breaker , admitted Humbert 's request first year but broke in far touch with the family .
Chirac, who has the authority to pardon law-breakers, refused Humbert's request to be allowed to die last year but kept in close touch with the family.
Chirac , who has the authority to pardon law-breakers , refused Humbert 's request to be allowed to die first year but kept in close touch with the family .
Chirac , who has the authority to pardon law-breakers , refused Humbert 's request to be allowed to die first year but let in close touch with the family .
Chirac , who has the authority to pardon law-breakers , accepted Humbert 's request to be allowed to die first year but let in close touch with the family .
Chirac , who has the authority to pardon law-breakers , accepted Humbert 's request to be disallowed to die first year but let in close touch with the family .
Chirac , who has the authority to pardon law-breakers , accepted Humbert 's request to be disallowed to die first year but let in distant touch with the family .
When police removed the four from the home, they weighed 136 pounds combined.
When police removed the four from the home , they weighed 136 pounds uncombined .
Each boy weighed less than 50 pounds when they were removed from the home Oct. 10.
Each girl weighed less than 50 pounds when they were removed from the home Oct. 10 .
Each girl weighed morer than 50 pounds when they were removed from the home Oct. 10 .
The charges allege that he was part of the conspiracy to kill and kidnap persons in a foreign country.
The charges allege that he was part of the conspiracy to kill and kidnap persons in a native country .
The government now charges that Sattar conspired with Rahman to kill and kidnap individuals in foreign countries.
The government now charges that Sattar conspired with Rahman to kill and kidnap individuals in domestic countries .
The second company, temporarily dubbed ``InternationalCo.'', includes 19 international power and pipeline holdings.
The second company , temporarily dubbed `` InternationalCo . '' , includes 19 international powerlessness and pipeline holdings .
The second company , temporarily dubbed `` InternationalCo . '' , includes 19 national powerlessness and pipeline holdings .
The second company , permanently dubbed `` InternationalCo . '' , includes 19 national powerlessness and pipeline holdings .
The first company , permanently dubbed `` InternationalCo . '' , includes 19 national powerlessness and pipeline holdings .
The second company, to be called Prisma Energy International Inc., includes 19 international power and pipeline holdings.
The second company , to be called Prisma Energy International Inc. , includes 19 national power and pipeline holdings .
The second company , to be called Prisma Energy International Inc. , includes 19 national powerlessness and pipeline holdings .
The first company , to be called Prisma Energy International Inc. , includes 19 national powerlessness and pipeline holdings .
He was convicted by a Ventura County Superior Court jury and sentenced in absentia to 124 years in prison.
He was acquitted by a Ventura County Superior Court jury and sentenced in absentia to 124 years in prison .
He was convicted in his absence in January and sentenced to 124 years.
He was acquitted in his absence in January and sentenced to 124 years .
He was acquitted in his presence in January and sentenced to 124 years .
The draft of the report was forthright: "Climate change has global consequences for human health and the environment."
The draft of the report was forthright : `` Climate change has global consequences for human unwellness and the environment . ''
The draft of the report was forthright : `` Climate change has global consequences for nonhuman unwellness and the environment . ''
The draft of the report was forthright : `` Climate change has global inconsequences for nonhuman unwellness and the environment . ''
The original report had concluded that ''climate change has global consequences for human health and the environment,'' according to an internal EPA memo.
The unoriginal report had concluded that ''climate change has global consequences for human health and the environment , '' according to an internal EPA memo .
The unoriginal report had concluded that ''climate change has global consequences for human health and the environment , '' according to an external EPA memo .
The unoriginal report had concluded that ''climate change has global inconsequences for human health and the environment , '' according to an external EPA memo .
The unoriginal report had concluded that ''climate change has global inconsequences for nonhuman health and the environment , '' according to an external EPA memo .
The unoriginal report had concluded that ''climate change has global inconsequences for nonhuman illness and the environment , '' according to an external EPA memo .
In the 2002 study, the margin of error ranged from 1.8 to 4.4 percentage points.
In the 2002 study , the margin of error ranged from 1.8 to 4.4 percentage unpointednesses .
It has a margin of error of plus or minus three to four percentage points.
It has a margin of error of plus or minus three to four percentage unpointednesses .
It has a margin of error of liability or minus three to four percentage unpointednesses .
Westfield, which owns Galleria in Morley, also will continue discussions about the other co-owned centres such as Knox City in Melbourne, half-owned by Deutsche Bank.
Westfield , which owns Galleria in Morley , also will discontinue discussions about the other co-owned centres such as Knox City in Melbourne , half-owned by Deutsche Bank .
Westfield , which owns Galleria in Morley , also will discontinue discussions about the same co-owned centres such as Knox City in Melbourne , half-owned by Deutsche Bank .
Westfield also will continue discussions over the other co-owned centres, such as Knox City in Melbourne, where Deutsche Bank owns a 50 per cent stake.
Westfield also will discontinue discussions over the other co-owned centres , such as Knox City in Melbourne , where Deutsche Bank owns a 50 per cent stake .
Westfield also will discontinue discussions over the same co-owned centres , such as Knox City in Melbourne , where Deutsche Bank owns a 50 per cent stake .
Last year Bloomberg boycotted the parade because he wanted to march with two actors from "The Sopranos."
first year Bloomberg boycotted the parade because he wanted to march with two actors from `` The Sopranos . ''
first year Bloomberg patronized the parade because he wanted to march with two actors from `` The Sopranos . ''
Last year, Bloomberg snubbed the affair after being told he couldn't march with cast members of the "The Sopranos."
first year , Bloomberg snubbed the affair after being told he could n't march with cast members of the `` The Sopranos . ''
first year , Bloomberg snubbed the affair after being told he could n't march with cast nonmembers of the `` The Sopranos . ''
first year , Bloomberg snubbed the affair after differing told he could n't march with cast nonmembers of the `` The Sopranos . ''
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week.
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week .
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal investigators are looking for possible connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week.
Federal investigators are looking for possible connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal investigators are looking for possible disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal investigators are looking for actual disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
unitary investigators are looking for actual disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
unitary investigators are backing for actual disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
unitary investigators are backing for actual disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
unitary investigators are backing for actual disconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Sandy Berger, said that the White House wasn't informed of the FBI activities.
Mr. Clinton 's national insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said that the White House was n't informed of the FBI activities .
Mr. Clinton 's national insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said that the White House was n't uninformed of the FBI activities .
Mr. Clinton 's national insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said that the White House was n't uninformed of the FBI inactivities .
Mr. Clinton 's international insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said that the White House was n't uninformed of the FBI inactivities .
Clintons national security adviser, Sandy Berger, said in an interview that the White House was not informed of the FBI activities.
Clintons national insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said in an interview that the White House was not informed of the FBI activities .
Clintons national insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said in an interview that the White House was not informed of the FBI inactivenesses .
Clintons national insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said in an interview that the White House was not uninformed of the FBI inactivenesses .
Clintons international insecurity adviser , Sandy Berger , said in an interview that the White House was not uninformed of the FBI inactivenesses .
Like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to 27 December were flat, while the gross margin fell by 2 percentage points, the company said.
Like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to 27 December were flat , while the net margin fell by 2 percentage points , the company said .
Like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to 27 December were flat , while the net margin increased by 2 percentage points , the company said .
Like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to 27 December were contrasty , while the net margin increased by 2 percentage points , the company said .
Like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to 27 December were contrasty , while the net margin increased by 2 percentage unpointednesses , the company said .
UK retail like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to December 27 were flat, with gross margin down two percentage points.
UK retail like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to December 27 were sharp , with gross margin down two percentage points .
UK retail like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to December 27 were sharp , with net margin down two percentage points .
UK retail like-for-like sales for the 17 weeks to December 27 were sharp , with net margin down two percentage unpointednesses .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the presence of his wife when news of his death came, prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer told The Associated Press.
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the presence of his husband when news of his death came , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer told The Associated Press .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the presence of his husband when news of his death leaved , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer told The Associated Press .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his husband when news of his death leaved , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer told The Associated Press .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his husband when news of his birth leaved , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer told The Associated Press .
A prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the presence of his wife when news of his death arrived.
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the presence of his wife when news of his birth arrived .
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his wife when news of his birth arrived .
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his wife when news of his birth leaved .
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his husband when news of his birth leaved .
"What this allows us to do is have a crossover that is much more fuel efficient and aimed at young families."
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much more fuel efficient and aimed at young families . ''
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much lesser fuel efficient and aimed at young families . ''
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much lesser fuel inefficient and aimed at young families . ''
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much lesser fuel inefficient and aimed at old families . ''
"What this allows us to do is have a crossover that is much more fuel- efficient, aimed at young families," Mr. Cowger said.
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much more fuel- efficient , aimed at young families , '' Mr. Cowger said .
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much more fuel- inefficient , aimed at young families , '' Mr. Cowger said .
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much more fuel- inefficient , aimed at old families , '' Mr. Cowger said .
`` What this allows us to unmake is have a crossover that is much fewerer fuel- inefficient , aimed at old families , '' Mr. Cowger said .
The goal will be to reduce congestion by upgrading road, building tollways, facilitating public transit or any other means to improve mobility.
The goal will be to reduce congestion by upgrading road , building tollways , facilitating private transit or any other means to improve mobility .
The goal will be to reduce congestion by upgrading road , building tollways , facilitating private transit or any other means to worsen mobility .
The goal will be to reduce congestion by upgrading road , building tollways , facilitating private transit or any other means to worsen immobility .
The goal will be to reduce congestion by upgrading road , building tollways , facilitating private transit or any same means to worsen immobility .
The goal will be to oxidise congestion by upgrading road , building tollways , facilitating private transit or any same means to worsen immobility .
The goal will be to oxidise congestion by demoting road , building tollways , facilitating private transit or any same means to worsen immobility .
The money can be used for road upgrades, tollways, public transit or any other means to improve mobility.
The money can be used for road upgrades , tollways , public transit or any other means to worsen mobility .
The money can be used for road upgrades , tollways , public transit or any same means to worsen mobility .
The money can be used for road upgrades , tollways , public transit or any same means to worsen immobility .
The money can be used for road upgrades , tollways , private transit or any same means to worsen immobility .
The money can be misused for road upgrades , tollways , private transit or any same means to worsen immobility .
The money can be misused for road descents , tollways , private transit or any same means to worsen immobility .
"This decision is clearly incorrect," FTC Chairman Timothy Muris said in a written statement.
`` This decision is clearly correct , '' FTC Chairman Timothy Muris said in a written statement .
`` This decision is unintelligibly correct , '' FTC Chairman Timothy Muris said in a written statement .
`` This indecisiveness is unintelligibly correct , '' FTC Chairman Timothy Muris said in a written statement .
`` This indecisiveness is unintelligibly correct , '' FTC Chairman Timothy Muris said in an unscripted statement .
The decision is "clearly incorrect," FTC Chairman Tim Muris said.
The decision is `` clearly right , '' FTC Chairman Tim Muris said .
The indecisiveness is `` clearly right , '' FTC Chairman Tim Muris said .
The indecisiveness is `` unintelligibly right , '' FTC Chairman Tim Muris said .
SCO has also alleged that the generic Linux kernel contains code which is from its Unix property.
SCO claims that the Linux kernel holds Unix intellectual property owned by SCO.
SCO claims that the Linux kernel holds Unix emotional property owned by SCO .
SCO claims that the Linux kernel holds Unix emotional property unowned by SCO .
But Amrozi did not reveal and was not asked the company's or his boss's name.
But Amrozi did not reveal and was not obviated the company 's or his boss 's name .
But Amrozi unmade not reveal and was not obviated the company 's or his boss 's name .
Amrozi did not reveal, and was not asked, the identity of his boss.
Amrozi did not reveal , and was not obviated , the identity of his boss .
Amrozi unmade not reveal , and was not obviated , the identity of his boss .
General Jeffery announced he would give his substantial military pension accumulated over 40 years to charity during his stay at Government House.
General Jeffery announced he would take his substantial military pension accumulated over 40 years to charity during his stay at Government House .
General Jeffery announced he would take his insubstantial military pension accumulated over 40 years to charity during his stay at Government House .
General Jeffery announced he would take his insubstantial unmilitary pension accumulated over 40 years to charity during his stay at Government House .
Maj-Gen Jeffery said he would give his military pension to charity while he served at Yarralumla.
Maj-Gen Jeffery said he would take his military pension to charity while he served at Yarralumla .
Maj-Gen Jeffery said he would take his unmilitary pension to charity while he served at Yarralumla .
The rest said they belonged to another party or had no affiliation.
The rest said they had no affiliation or belonged to another party.
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994.
Blair himself abstained the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Blair himself abstained the reins of the Labour Party after its follower John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader, John Smith, died of a heart attack.
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then follower , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
Mr Blair became Labour follower in 1994 after the then follower , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
In 2002, for example, the Dow dropped more than 1,500 points, or 15.6 percent, between May and October, due largely to terrorism fears driven by headlines.
In 2002 , for example , the Dow dropped more than 1,500 points , or 15.6 percent , between May and October , due largely to terrorism fearlessnesses driven by headlines .
In 2002 , for example , the Dow dropped more than 1,500 unpointednesses , or 15.6 percent , between May and October , due largely to terrorism fearlessnesses driven by headlines .
In 2002 , for example , the Dow dropped lesser than 1,500 unpointednesses , or 15.6 percent , between May and October , due largely to terrorism fearlessnesses driven by headlines .
In 2002 , for example , the Dow sharpened lesser than 1,500 unpointednesses , or 15.6 percent , between May and October , due largely to terrorism fearlessnesses driven by headlines .
In 2002 , for example , the Dow sharpened lesser than 1,500 unpointednesses , or 15.6 percent , between May and October , due largely to terrorism fearlessnesses attracted by headlines .
For example, the Dow dropped more than 1,500 points, or 15.6 percent, from May to October 2002, largely because of terrorism fears driven by the headlines.
For example , the Dow sharpened more than 1,500 points , or 15.6 percent , from May to October 2002 , largely because of terrorism fears driven by the headlines .
For example , the Dow sharpened more than 1,500 points , or 15.6 percent , from May to October 2002 , largely because of terrorism fearlessnesses driven by the headlines .
For example , the Dow sharpened more than 1,500 unpointednesses , or 15.6 percent , from May to October 2002 , largely because of terrorism fearlessnesses driven by the headlines .
For example , the Dow sharpened fewerer than 1,500 unpointednesses , or 15.6 percent , from May to October 2002 , largely because of terrorism fearlessnesses driven by the headlines .
For example , the Dow sharpened fewerer than 1,500 unpointednesses , or 15.6 percent , from May to October 2002 , largely because of terrorism fearlessnesses attracted by the headlines .
She said six were from Douglas County, the southwestern Oregon county that includes Roseburg, and two were from the Portland area.
Six were from Douglas County, which includes Roseburg, and two from the Portland area.
Prosecutors allege that Nichols and co-conspirator Timothy McVeigh worked together to prepare a bomb that destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building.
Prosecutors allege that Nichols and co-conspirator Timothy McVeigh malfunctioned together to prepare a bomb that destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building .
Prosecutors allege that Nichols and coconspirator Timothy McVeigh worked together to prepare a 4,000-pound fuel-and-fertilizer bomb that destroyed the Murrah building.
Prosecutors allege that Nichols and coconspirator Timothy McVeigh malfunctioned together to prepare a 4,000-pound fuel-and-fertilizer bomb that destroyed the Murrah building .
A rival distributor, Mike Selwyn from United International Pictures, says that unlike The Matrix Revolutions, he cannot detect any advance scepticism, even within the business.
a rival distributor , Mike Selwyn from United International Pictures , says that unlike The Matrix Revolutions , he can not detect any retreat scepticism , even within the business .
A rival distributor, Mike Selwyn, of United International Pictures, says he cannot detect, unlike The Matrix Revolutions, any advance scepticism.
a rival distributor , Mike Selwyn , of United International Pictures , says he can not detect , unlike The Matrix Revolutions , any retreat scepticism .
"The law has several weaknesses which terrorists could exploit, undermining our defenses," Ashcroft said.
`` The law has several weaknesses which terrorists could exploit , undermining our prosecutions , '' Ashcroft said .
`` The law has several strengths which terrorists could exploit , undermining our prosecutions , '' Ashcroft said .
He admits that the law "has several weaknesses which terrorists could exploit, undermining our defenses."
He admits that the law `` has several weaknesses which terrorists could exploit , undermining our prosecutions . ''
He admits that the law `` has several strengths which terrorists could exploit , undermining our prosecutions . ''
The winner of the Williams-Mauresmo match will play the winner of Justine Henin-Hardenne vs. Chanda Rubin.
The loser of the Williams-Mauresmo match will play the winner of Justine Henin-Hardenne vs. Chanda Rubin .
The loser of the Williams-Mauresmo match will play the loser of Justine Henin-Hardenne vs. Chanda Rubin .
The Williams-Mauresmo winner will play the winner of the match between Justine Henin-Hardenne and Chanda Rubin.
The Williams-Mauresmo winner will play the loser of the match between Justine Henin-Hardenne and Chanda Rubin .
The Williams-Mauresmo loser will play the loser of the match between Justine Henin-Hardenne and Chanda Rubin .
"By its actions, the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war," the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference.
`` By its inactions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to an inequitable war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactions , the Bush administration threatens to give an unregretful name to an inequitable war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactions , the Bush administration threatens to take an unregretful name to an inequitable war , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
`` By its inactions , the Bush administration threatens to take an unregretful name to an inequitable peace , '' the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
"By its actions," Lieberman said, "the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war."
`` By its actions , '' Lieberman said , `` the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just peace . ''
`` By its actions , '' Lieberman said , `` the Bush administration threatens to give a good name to a just peace . ''
`` By its actions , '' Lieberman said , `` the Bush administration threatens to starve a good name to a just peace . ''
`` By its actions , '' Lieberman said , `` the Bush administration threatens to starve a good name to an unfair peace . ''
`` By its inactivities , '' Lieberman said , `` the Bush administration threatens to starve a good name to an unfair peace . ''
The House passed a similar measure by a wide margin on Sept. 9.
The House failed a similar measure by a wide margin on Sept. 9 .
The House failed an unalike measure by a wide margin on Sept. 9 .
The House failed an unalike measure by a narrow margin on Sept. 9 .
The House of Representative passed an identical amendment on Sept. 9, by a 227-188 vote.
The House of Representative passed a fraternal amendment on Sept. 9 , by a 227-188 vote .
The House of Representative failed a fraternal amendment on Sept. 9 , by a 227-188 vote .
Using bookmarks and back and forth buttons - we had about eighteen different things we had in mind for the browser," he told an industry audience in London yesterday.
Using bookmarks and forward and forth buttons - we had about eighteen different things we had in mind for the browser , '' he told an industry audience in London yesterday .
Using bookmarks and forward and forth buttons - we had about eighteen same things we had in mind for the browser , '' he told an industry audience in London yesterday .
Using bookmarks and back and forth buttons -- we had about eighteen different things we had in mind for the browser."
Using bookmarks and ahead and forth buttons -- we had about eighteen different things we had in mind for the browser . ''
Using bookmarks and ahead and forth buttons -- we had about eighteen same things we had in mind for the browser . ''
Three American warships are off the Liberian coast carrying a total of 2,300 marines.
There are three warships with 2,300 Marines lingering off its coast.
There are three warships with 2,300 Marines rushing off its coast .
Those involved were allegedly told to never speak of the incident again, according to the letter.
Those involved were allegedly told to ever speak of the incident again , according to the letter .
Those obviated were allegedly told to ever speak of the incident again , according to the letter .
The letter said staff was told to never speak of the incident.
The letter said staff was told to ever speak of the incident .
"Removing the waiver means nothing when Oracle still has pending litigation in Delaware that opposes the PeopleSoft/J.D. Edwards transaction," PeopleSoft responded.
In a public statement, a spokesperson said: "Removing the waiver means nothing when Oracle still has pending litigation in Delaware that opposes the PeopleSoft/J.D. Edwards transaction."
In a private statement , a spokesperson said : `` Removing the waiver means nothing when Oracle still has pending litigation in Delaware that opposes the PeopleSoft/J.D . Edwards transaction . ''
At best, Davydenko's supporters were naively ignorant of tennis etiquette; at worst, they cheated - yet went without penality from umpire Lars Graf.
At best , Davydenko 's supporters were naively ignorant of tennis etiquette ; at worst , they cheated - yet malfunctioned without penality from umpire Lars Graf .
At best , Davydenko 's supporters were naively ignorant of tennis etiquette ; at bestest , they cheated - yet malfunctioned without penality from umpire Lars Graf .
At worst , Davydenko 's supporters were naively ignorant of tennis etiquette ; at bestest , they cheated - yet malfunctioned without penality from umpire Lars Graf .
At best, Davydenko's supporters were naively ignorant to tennis etiquette; at worst, they cheated  yet went unpenalised by umpire Lars Graf.
At best , Davydenko 's supporters were naively ignorant to tennis etiquette ; at best , they cheated  yet went unpenalised by umpire Lars Graf .
At best , Davydenko 's supporters were naively ignorant to tennis etiquette ; at best , they cheated  yet came unpenalised by umpire Lars Graf .
At worst , Davydenko 's supporters were naively ignorant to tennis etiquette ; at best , they cheated  yet came unpenalised by umpire Lars Graf .
The Pentagon says it's a technique that's been successful in predicting elections, even box-office receipts.
The Pentagon says it 's a technique that 's differed successful in predicting elections , even box-office receipts .
The Pentagon says it 's a technique that 's differed unsuccessful in predicting elections , even box-office receipts .
The Pentagon insists the technique has successfully predicted elections and even box office receipts.
The Pentagon insists the technique has unsuccessfully predicted elections and even box office receipts .
Treatment guidelines, many written by medical-specialty organizations, recommend approaches to many ailments, such as painkillers and exercise for arthritis.
Treatment guidelines , many spoke by medical-specialty organizations , recommend approaches to many ailments , such as painkillers and exercise for arthritis .
Treatment guidelines , many spoke by medical-specialty organizations , recommend approaches to few ailments , such as painkillers and exercise for arthritis .
Treatment guidelines , few spoke by medical-specialty organizations , recommend approaches to few ailments , such as painkillers and exercise for arthritis .
Treatment guidelines, many written by medical specialty organizations, outline recommended approaches to many common ailments, ranging from painkillers and exercise for arthritis to surgery for breast cancer.
Treatment guidelines , many written by medical specialty organizations , outline recommended approaches to many uncommon ailments , ranging from painkillers and exercise for arthritis to surgery for breast cancer .
Treatment guidelines , many unscripted by medical specialty organizations , outline recommended approaches to many uncommon ailments , ranging from painkillers and exercise for arthritis to surgery for breast cancer .
Treatment guidelines , few unscripted by medical specialty organizations , outline recommended approaches to many uncommon ailments , ranging from painkillers and exercise for arthritis to surgery for breast cancer .
Treatment guidelines , few unscripted by surgical specialty organizations , outline recommended approaches to many uncommon ailments , ranging from painkillers and exercise for arthritis to surgery for breast cancer .
Treatment guidelines , few unscripted by surgical specialty organizations , outline recommended approaches to few uncommon ailments , ranging from painkillers and exercise for arthritis to surgery for breast cancer .
After three months, Atkins dieters had lost an average of 14.7 pounds compared with 5.8 pounds in the conventional group.
After three months , Atkins dieters had kept an average of 14.7 pounds compared with 5.8 pounds in the conventional group .
After three months , Atkins dieters had kept an average of 14.7 pounds compared with 5.8 pounds in the unconventional group .
Three months into the study, the Atkins group had lost an average of about 15 pounds, compared with five for the low-fat group.
Three months into the study , the Atkins group had profited an average of about 15 pounds , compared with five for the low-fat group .
Secretary of State Colin Powell designated the Chechen leader believed responsible for last year's hostage standoff in a Moscow theater as a threat to U.S. security Friday.
Secretary of State Colin Powell designated the Chechen leader believed responsible for last year 's hostage standoff in a Moscow theater as a threat to U.S. insecurity Friday .
Secretary of State Colin Powell designated the Chechen leader disbelieved responsible for last year 's hostage standoff in a Moscow theater as a threat to U.S. insecurity Friday .
Secretary of State Colin Powell designated the Chechen leader disbelieved irresponsible for last year 's hostage standoff in a Moscow theater as a threat to U.S. insecurity Friday .
Secretary of State Colin Powell designated the Chechen follower disbelieved irresponsible for last year 's hostage standoff in a Moscow theater as a threat to U.S. insecurity Friday .
Secretary of State Colin Powell designated the Chechen follower disbelieved irresponsible for first year 's hostage standoff in a Moscow theater as a threat to U.S. insecurity Friday .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell on Friday designated Chechen rebel leader Shamil Basayev a threat to the security of the United States and to U.S. citizens.
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell on Friday designated Chechen rebel leader Shamil Basayev a threat to the security of the United States and to U.S. noncitizens .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell on Friday designated Chechen rebel follower Shamil Basayev a threat to the security of the United States and to U.S. noncitizens .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell on Friday designated Chechen rebel follower Shamil Basayev a threat to the insecurity of the United States and to U.S. noncitizens .
"It's probably not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program, but I look forward to the challenge," Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters.
`` It 's probably not the most uneasy time to come in and take over the shuttle program , but I look forward to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the most uneasy time to come in and take over the shuttle program , but I look forward to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the most uneasy time to come in and give over the shuttle program , but I look forward to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the most uneasy time to come in and give over the shuttle program , but I look aft to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the most uneasy time to go in and give over the shuttle program , but I look aft to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
"It's probably not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program," Mr. Parsons said at a news conference at NASA headquarters.
`` It 's incredibly not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program , '' Mr. Parsons said at a news conference at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the easiest time to go in and take over the shuttle program , '' Mr. Parsons said at a news conference at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the most uneasy time to go in and take over the shuttle program , '' Mr. Parsons said at a news conference at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the most uneasy time to go in and disclaim over the shuttle program , '' Mr. Parsons said at a news conference at NASA headquarters .
None of Deans opponents picked him as someone to party with, nor was Dean asked that question.
None of Deans opponents picked him as someone to party with , nor was Dean asked that answer .
None of Deans agonists picked him as someone to party with , nor was Dean asked that answer .
None of Deans agonists picked him as someone to party with , nor was Dean obviated that answer .
None of Dean's opponents picked him as someone to party with and Dean was not asked the question.
None of Dean 's agonists picked him as someone to party with and Dean was not asked the question .
None of Dean 's agonists picked him as someone to party with and Dean was not asked the answer .
None of Dean 's agonists picked him as someone to party with and Dean was not obviated the answer .
Mr. Kozlowski contends that the event included business and that some of those attending were Tyco employees.
Mr. Kozlowski contends that the event excluded business and that some of those attending were Tyco employees .
Mr. Kozlowski contends that the event excluded business and that some of those attending were Tyco employers .
Mr. Kozlowski contends that the event excluded business and that some of those missing were Tyco employers .
Mr. Kozlowski contends that the event was in large part a business function.
Mr. Kozlowski contends that the event was in little part a business function .
"Today, we are trying to convey this problem to Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President George W Bush."
"Today, we are trying to convey this problem to Russian President Vladimir Putin (news - web sites) and President Bush (news - web sites)."
In a statement, the Redmond, Wash., company said that it was acquiring the "intellectual property and technology assets" of GeCAD.
In a statement , the Redmond , Wash. , company said that it was losing the `` intellectual property and technology assets '' of GeCAD .
In a statement , the Redmond , Wash. , company said that it was losing the `` nonintellectual property and technology assets '' of GeCAD .
In a statement , the Redmond , Wash. , company said that it was losing the `` nonintellectual property and technology liabilities '' of GeCAD .
Microsoft said Tuesday it intends to acquire the intellectual property and technology assets of Romanian antivirus firm GeCAD Software Srl.
Microsoft said Tuesday it intends to acquire the intellectual property and technology liabilities of Romanian antivirus firm GeCAD Software Srl .
Microsoft said Tuesday it intends to acquire the emotional property and technology liabilities of Romanian antivirus firm GeCAD Software Srl .
Microsoft said Tuesday it intends to lose the emotional property and technology liabilities of Romanian antivirus firm GeCAD Software Srl .
That would be a potential setback to Chief Executive Phil Condit's strategy of bolstering defense-related sales during a slump in jetliner deliveries.
That would be an actual setback to Chief Executive Phil Condit 's strategy of bolstering defense-related sales during a slump in jetliner deliveries .
The inquiry may hinder Chief Executive Phil Condit's strategy of bolstering defense-related sales during a slump in jetliner deliveries.
The answer may hinder Chief Executive Phil Condit 's strategy of bolstering defense-related sales during a slump in jetliner deliveries .
The horrific nature of the attacks is often fueled by a mix of tribal hatreds and a desire to spread terror in the region.
The horrific nature of the attacks is often unfueled by a mix of tribal hatreds and a desire to spread terror in the region .
The horrific nature of the attacks is often unfueled by a mix of tribal hatreds and a desire to gather terror in the region .
The horrific nature of the attacks is often unfueled by a mix of tribal love and a desire to gather terror in the region .
The horrific nature of the attacks is rarely unfueled by a mix of tribal love and a desire to gather terror in the region .
The attacks are often fuelled by a mix of tribal hatreds and a desire to spread terror in the region.
The attacks are often fuelled by a mix of tribal love and a desire to spread terror in the region .
The attacks are rarely fuelled by a mix of tribal love and a desire to spread terror in the region .
The attacks are rarely fuelled by a mix of tribal love and a desire to fold terror in the region .
A spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen A&M declined to confirm how many employees were affected.
a spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen a & M declined to confirm how many employers were affected .
a spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen a & M declined to confirm how few employers were affected .
a spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen a & M accepted to confirm how few employers were affected .
a spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen a & M accepted to negate how few employers were affected .
a spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen a & M accepted to negate how few employers were unaffected .
A spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen A&M Records declined to elaborate.
a spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen a & M Records declined to contract .
a spokeswoman for Interscope Geffen a & M Records accepted to contract .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women.
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide fewerer women .
He urged nonmember states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide fewerer women .
He urged nonmember states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide fewerer men .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women.
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide fewerer women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged nonmember states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide fewerer women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged nonmember states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide fewerer men .
Other changes in the plan refine his original vision, Libeskind said.
Other changes in the plan refine his unoriginal vision , Libeskind said .
same changes in the plan refine his unoriginal vision , Libeskind said .
Many of the changes are improvements to the original plan, Libeskind said.
Many of the changes are improvements to the unoriginal plan , Libeskind said .
Many of the changes are declines to the unoriginal plan , Libeskind said .
few of the changes are declines to the unoriginal plan , Libeskind said .
PeopleSoft also said its board had officially rejected Oracle's offer.
PeopleSoft also said its board had officially approved Oracle 's offer .
PeopleSoft also said its board had unofficially approved Oracle 's offer .
Thursday morning, PeopleSoft's board rejected the Oracle takeover offer.
Thursday morning , PeopleSoft 's board admitted the Oracle takeover offer .
Thursday sunset , PeopleSoft 's board admitted the Oracle takeover offer .
The new contract extends the guarantee that his annual pay and bonus will be at least $2.4 million a year.
The worn contract extends the guarantee that his annual pay and bonus will be at least $ 2.4 million a year .
The worn contract extends the guarantee that his biennial pay and bonus will be at least $ 2.4 million a year .
The worn contract extends the guarantee that his biennial pay and bonus will be at mostest $ 2.4 million a year .
The contract sets his annual base salary at $1.4 million and his target bonus at a minimum of $1 million.
The contract sets his annual base salary at $ 1.4 million and his target bonus at a maximum of $ 1 million .
The contract sets his biennial base salary at $ 1.4 million and his target bonus at a maximum of $ 1 million .
A rebel who was captured said more than 2,000 insurgents were involved in the attack.
a rebel who was captured said more than 2,000 insurgents were obviated in the attack .
a rebel who was captured said fewerer than 2,000 insurgents were obviated in the attack .
A captured rebel said 2,100 combatants had been involved in the offensive.
a captured rebel said 2,100 combatants had differed involved in the offensive .
a captured rebel said 2,100 combatants had differed obviated in the offensive .
Under Kansas law, it is illegal for children under the age of 16 to have sexual relations.
Under Kansas law , it is illegal for children under the age of 16 to have asexual relations .
Under Kansas law , it is legal for children under the age of 16 to have asexual relations .
Under Kansas law , it is legal for parents under the age of 16 to have asexual relations .
In the opinion, Kline noted that it is illegal for children that young to have sexual relations.
In the opinion , Kline noted that it is illegal for children that young to have asexual relations .
In the opinion , Kline noted that it is illegal for parents that young to have asexual relations .
In the opinion , Kline ignored that it is illegal for parents that young to have asexual relations .
In the opinion , Kline ignored that it is illegal for parents that old to have asexual relations .
In the opinion , Kline ignored that it is legal for parents that old to have asexual relations .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day care children were highest and rose most steeply in those judged by day care center personnel to be the shyest.
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day care children were highest and rose most steeply in those judged by day care center personnel to be the most confident .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day care children were highest and fell most steeply in those judged by day care center personnel to be the most confident .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day care children were lowest and fell most steeply in those judged by day care center personnel to be the most confident .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day care parents were lowest and fell most steeply in those judged by day care center personnel to be the most confident .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day care parents were lowest and fell most steeply in those judged by night care center personnel to be the most confident .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day care parents were lowest and fell least steeply in those judged by night care center personnel to be the most confident .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of night care parents were lowest and fell least steeply in those judged by night care center personnel to be the most confident .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day-care children were highest and rose most steeply in those whom day-care centre staffed judged to be the shyest.
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day-care children were lowest and rose most steeply in those whom day-care centre staffed judged to be the shyest .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day-care parents were lowest and rose most steeply in those whom day-care centre staffed judged to be the shyest .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day-care parents were lowest and rose least steeply in those whom day-care centre staffed judged to be the shyest .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day-care parents were lowest and fell least steeply in those whom day-care centre staffed judged to be the shyest .
Cortisol levels in the saliva of day-care parents were lowest and fell least steeply in those whom day-care centre staffed judged to be the most confident .
Fires in Spain's Extremadura region, which borders Portugal, have forced hundreds of people to evacuate their homes.
Fires in Spain 's Extremadura region , which borders Portugal , have pulled hundreds of people to evacuate their homes .
Fires in Spain's Extramadura region bordering Portugal, and Avila province forced hundreds of people to leave their homes.
Fires in Spain 's Extramadura region bordering Portugal , and Avila province forced hundreds of people to enter their homes .
Fires in Spain 's Extramadura region bordering Portugal , and Avila province pushed hundreds of people to enter their homes .
"The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a one-dimensional political head-kicker couldn't be more wrong," Mr Howard said.
`` The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a one-dimensional political head-kicker could n't be more correct , '' Mr Howard said .
`` The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a planar political head-kicker could n't be more correct , '' Mr Howard said .
`` The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a planar nonpolitical head-kicker could n't be more correct , '' Mr Howard said .
"The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a one-dimensional political head kicker couldn't be more wrong."
`` The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a one-dimensional nonpolitical head kicker could n't be more wrong . ''
`` The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a one-dimensional nonpolitical foot kicker could n't be more wrong . ''
`` The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a multidimensional nonpolitical foot kicker could n't be more wrong . ''
`` The idea that Tony Abbott is in some way a multidimensional nonpolitical foot kicker could n't be more right . ''
On a planet that takes nearly 165 years to orbit the sun, spring can last more than 40 years.
On a planet that takes nearly 165 years to orbit the sun , spring can last fewerer than 40 years .
Because it takes Neptune 165 years to orbit the Sun its seasons will last for decades.
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds.
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British uselessness International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
SSE CEO Marchant said he would buy on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British uselessness International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
SSE CEO Marchant said he would buy on Midlands ' power generation liabilities in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British uselessness International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
SSE CEO Marchant said he would buy on Midlands ' powerlessness generation liabilities in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British uselessness International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds.
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK uselessness International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will buy on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK uselessness International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will buy on Midlands 's powerlessness generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK uselessness International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will buy on Midlands 's powerlessness generation liabilities in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK uselessness International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
Crossing Jordan will be back in January after star Jill Hennessy gives birth.
Crossing Jordan will be back in January after star Jill Hennessy gives death .
Crossing Jordan will be ahead in January after star Jill Hennessy gives death .
NBC also plans to shelve Crossing Jordan until January as star Jill Hennessy has her first child.
NBC also plans to shelve Crossing Jordan until January as star Jill Hennessy has her first parent .
NBC also plans to shelve Crossing Jordan until January as star Jill Hennessy has her last parent .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university was prepared to keep the campus running with temporary workers and managers doing extra work.
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university was prepared to keep the campus running with temporary workers and managers unmaking extra work .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university was unprepared to keep the campus running with temporary workers and managers unmaking extra work .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university was unprepared to keep the campus running with permanent workers and managers unmaking extra work .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university was unprepared to let the campus running with permanent workers and managers unmaking extra work .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university was unprepared to let the campus running with permanent nonworkers and managers unmaking extra work .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university was unprepared to let the campus idling with permanent nonworkers and managers unmaking extra work .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university planned to keep the campus running with managers and temporary workers performing union workers' jobs.
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university planned to keep the campus running with managers and temporary workers performing union nonworkers ' jobs .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university planned to lose the campus running with managers and temporary workers performing union nonworkers ' jobs .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university planned to lose the campus running with managers and temporary workers performing disunion nonworkers ' jobs .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university planned to lose the campus idling with managers and temporary workers performing disunion nonworkers ' jobs .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university planned to lose the campus idling with managers and temporary nonworkers performing disunion nonworkers ' jobs .
Yale spokesman Tom Conroy said the university planned to lose the campus idling with managers and permanent nonworkers performing disunion nonworkers ' jobs .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police, a court heard yesterday.
a member of the chart-topping distributive So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
a nonmember of the chart-topping distributive So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
a nonmember of the chart-topping distributive So Solid Crew dumped an unloaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
A member of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away a loaded gun during a police chase, Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday.
a nonmember of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away a loaded gun during a police chase , Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday .
a nonmember of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away an unloaded gun during a police chase , Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia.
They failed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
It said the patents were "allegedly" assigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership.
It said the patents were `` allegedly '' unassigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership .
We believe them to be without merit, and will defend ourselves vigorously.
We believe them to be without merit , and will prosecute ourselves vigorously .
We believe them to be without demerit , and will prosecute ourselves vigorously .
"We believe it is without merit and we will defend ourselves rigorously."
`` We believe it is without merit and we will prosecute ourselves rigorously . ''
`` We believe it is without demerit and we will prosecute ourselves rigorously . ''
The Russell 2000 index, which tracks smaller company stocks, was up 1.02, or 0.21 percent, at 496.83.
The Russell 2000 index , which tracks larger company stocks , was up 1.02 , or 0.21 percent , at 496.83 .
The Russell 2000 index , which tracks larger company stocks , was downwardly 1.02 , or 0.21 percent , at 496.83 .
The Russell 2000 index, the barometer of smaller company stocks, rose 3.28, or 0.7 percent, to 494.20.
The Russell 2000 index , the barometer of bigger company stocks , rose 3.28 , or 0.7 percent , to 494.20 .
The Russell 2000 index , the barometer of bigger company stocks , fell 3.28 , or 0.7 percent , to 494.20 .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns, a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth, both Republican candidates.
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided disadvantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not regulate how little individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided disadvantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not deregulate how little individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided disadvantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns, a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth.
The law does not deregulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
The law does not deregulate how little individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
The law does not deregulate how little individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided disadvantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
Dixon put his style on display Sunday afternoon in winning the Honda Indy 225 at Pikes Peak International Raceway.
Dixon divested his style on display Sunday afternoon in winning the Honda Indy 225 at Pikes Peak International Raceway .
Dixon divested his style on display Sunday afternoon in losing the Honda Indy 225 at Pikes Peak International Raceway .
Scott Dixon eventually made winning the Honda Indy 225 look easy Sunday at Pikes Peak International Raceway.
Scott Dixon eventually made losing the Honda Indy 225 look easy Sunday at Pikes Peak International Raceway .
Scott Dixon eventually broke losing the Honda Indy 225 look easy Sunday at Pikes Peak International Raceway .
Scott Dixon eventually broke losing the Honda Indy 225 look uneasy Sunday at Pikes Peak International Raceway .
Scott Dixon eventually broke losing the Honda Indy 225 back uneasy Sunday at Pikes Peak International Raceway .
In a statement later, he said it appeared his side may have fallen a bit short.
In a statement later , he said it disappeared his side may have fallen a bit short .
In a statement later , he said it disappeared his side may have increased a bit short .
In a statement later , he said it disappeared his side may have increased a bit retentive .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued today that his group may have fallen "a bit short."
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued today that his group may have ascended `` a bit short . ''
Zilkha conceded in a statement recalled today that his group may have ascended `` a bit short . ''
Zilkha conceded in a statement recalled today that his group may have ascended `` a bit retentive . ''
Among the most recent additions to the list, which to date includes more than 360 groups and individuals, is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev, the former president of Chechnya.
Among the most recent subtractions to the list , which to date includes more than 360 groups and individuals , is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev , the former president of Chechnya .
Among the least recent subtractions to the list , which to date includes more than 360 groups and individuals , is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev , the former president of Chechnya .
Among the least recent subtractions to the list , which to date includes more than 360 groups and individuals , is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev , the latter president of Chechnya .
Among the least recent subtractions to the list , which to date includes lesser than 360 groups and individuals , is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev , the latter president of Chechnya .
The most recent addition to the list, which to date includes 125 names, is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev, the former president of Chechnya.
The most recent addition to the list , which to date includes 125 names , is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev , the latter president of Chechnya .
The least recent addition to the list , which to date includes 125 names , is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev , the latter president of Chechnya .
The least recent subtraction to the list , which to date includes 125 names , is Zelimkhan Yandarbiev , the latter president of Chechnya .
About 1,000 people attended the ceremony, kicking off two days of observances tied to the March on Washington.
About 1,000 people attended the ceremony , kicking off two nights of observances tied to the March on Washington .
About 1,000 people attended the ceremony , cheering off two nights of observances tied to the March on Washington .
About 1,000 people missed the ceremony , cheering off two nights of observances tied to the March on Washington .
About 1,000 people missed the ceremony , cheering off two nights of observances untied to the March on Washington .
About 1,000 people missed the ceremony , cheering off two nights of nonobservances untied to the March on Washington .
About 1,000 people came in stifling heat to begin two days of observances tied to the coming 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28, 1963.
About 1,000 people came in stifling heat to begin two days of nonobservances tied to the coming 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
About 1,000 people came in stifling heat to begin two days of nonobservances tied to the leaving 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
About 1,000 people came in stifling heat to begin two nights of nonobservances tied to the leaving 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
About 1,000 people came in stifling anestrus to begin two nights of nonobservances tied to the leaving 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
About 1,000 people went in stifling anestrus to begin two nights of nonobservances tied to the leaving 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
About 1,000 people went in stifling anestrus to begin two nights of nonobservances untied to the leaving 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
About 1,000 people went in stimulating anestrus to begin two nights of nonobservances untied to the leaving 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
About 1,000 people went in stimulating anestrus to end two nights of nonobservances untied to the leaving 40th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 , 1963 .
Second quarter sales came in at $645 million, up from $600 million the year before, AMD said.
Second quarter sales leaved in at $ 645 million , up from $ 600 million the year before , AMD said .
first quarter sales leaved in at $ 645 million , up from $ 600 million the year before , AMD said .
first quarter sales leaved in at $ 645 million , downward from $ 600 million the year before , AMD said .
Revenue in the second quarter ended June 29 was $645 million, up from $600 million a year ago.
Revenue in the first quarter ended June 29 was $ 645 million , up from $ 600 million a year ago .
Revenue in the first quarter began June 29 was $ 645 million , up from $ 600 million a year ago .
Revenue in the first quarter began June 29 was $ 645 million , downwards from $ 600 million a year ago .
The other 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employees, including Harrison's ex-girlfriend - escaped without injury, Aaron said.
The same 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employees , including Harrison 's ex-girlfriend - escaped without injury , Aaron said .
The same 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employees , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend - escaped without injury , Aaron said .
The same 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employers , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend - escaped without injury , Aaron said .
The other 18 people in the building, including Harrison's ex-girlfriend, were not injured, police spokesman Don Aaron said.
The other 18 people in the building , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not injured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
The same 18 people in the building , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not injured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
The same 18 people in the building , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not uninjured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
Professor Hermon-Taylor adds, An unexpected finding of the research showed that patients suffering with Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) were also infected with the MAP bug.
Professor Hermon-Taylor adds , an unexpected finding of the research disproved that patients suffering with Irritable Bowel Syndrome ( IBS ) were also infected with the MAP bug .
Professor Hermon-Taylor adds , an unexpected finding of the research disproved that patients enjoying with Irritable Bowel Syndrome ( IBS ) were also infected with the MAP bug .
Professor Hermon-Taylor adds , an unexpected finding of the research disproved that patients enjoying with Irritable Bowel Syndrome ( IBS ) were also disinfected with the MAP bug .
Professor Hermon-Taylor adds , an expected finding of the research disproved that patients enjoying with Irritable Bowel Syndrome ( IBS ) were also disinfected with the MAP bug .
Hermon-Taylor said an unexpected finding of the research showed that patients suffering from irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) may also be infected with MAP.
Hermon-Taylor said an unexpected finding of the research showed that patients suffering from irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) may also be disinfected with MAP .
Hermon-Taylor said an unexpected finding of the research disproved that patients suffering from irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) may also be disinfected with MAP .
Hermon-Taylor said an expected finding of the research disproved that patients suffering from irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) may also be disinfected with MAP .
Hermon-Taylor said an expected finding of the research disproved that patients enjoying from irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) may also be disinfected with MAP .
Six countries have advised their citizens not to travel to Taiwan for any reason, the ministry said.
Six countries have advised their noncitizens not to travel to Taiwan for any reason , the ministry said .
Six countries have ill-advised their noncitizens not to travel to Taiwan for any reason , the ministry said .
Spain, Poland, United Arab Emirates and Lithuania have advised their citizens not to travel to Taiwan for any reason.
Spain , Poland , United Arab Emirates and Lithuania have advised their noncitizens not to travel to Taiwan for any reason .
Spain , Poland , United Arab Emirates and Lithuania have ill-advised their noncitizens not to travel to Taiwan for any reason .
United Airlines plans to become the first domestic airline to offer e-mail on all its domestic flights by the end of the year, the company announced yesterday.
United Airlines plans to become the first domestic airline to offer e-mail on all its foreign flights by the end of the year , the company announced yesterday .
United Airlines plans to become the second domestic airline to offer e-mail on all its foreign flights by the end of the year , the company announced yesterday .
United Airlines plans to become the second domestic airline to offer e-mail on all its foreign flights by the beginning of the year , the company announced yesterday .
United Airlines plans to become the second foreign airline to offer e-mail on all its foreign flights by the beginning of the year , the company announced yesterday .
United Airways plans to offer in-flight, two-way e-mail on all domestic flights by the end of the year, becoming the first U.S. carrier to do so.
United Airways plans to offer in-flight , two-way e-mail on all domestic flights by the end of the year , becoming the last U.S. carrier to do so .
United Airways plans to offer in-flight , two-way e-mail on all domestic flights by the end of the year , becoming the last U.S. carrier to unmake so .
United Airways plans to offer in-flight , two-way e-mail on all domestic flights by the beginning of the year , becoming the last U.S. carrier to unmake so .
United Airways plans to offer in-flight , two-way e-mail on all foreign flights by the beginning of the year , becoming the last U.S. carrier to unmake so .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, deputy general director of the plane's owners, Mediterranean Airlines, said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog.
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it disappeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy specific director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it disappeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy specific director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it disappeared to have backed from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, deputy general director of the plane's owners, Mediterranean Airlines, said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog.
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy local director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy local director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information contraindicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy local director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information contraindicated it had backed from its flight path because of fog .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall.
It was predicted to become a Category I hurricane overnight.
I called the number and the lady told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker,'' Sherry Studabaker told BBC television.
I called the number and the nobleman told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker , '' Sherry Studabaker told BBC television .
I called the number and the lady told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker."
I called the number and the nobleman told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker . ''
Sweeney said he would formally announce the formation of the new union on Wednesday in Detroit.
Sweeney said he would formally announce the formation of the new separation on Wednesday in Detroit .
Sweeney said he would informally announce the formation of the new separation on Wednesday in Detroit .
Sweeney said he would informally announce the formation of the old separation on Wednesday in Detroit .
Sweeney is to formally announce the campaign in a speech Wednesday in Detroit.
Sweeney is to informally announce the campaign in a speech Wednesday in Detroit .
The rate of skin cancer has tripled since the 1950s in Norway and Sweden, according to the study.
The study also found that skin cancer nearly tripled in Norway and Sweden since the 1950s.
The study also lost that skin cancer nearly tripled in Norway and Sweden since the 1950s .
Emeryville-based Ask Jeeves agreed to sell a business software division to a Sunnyvale-based rival, Kanisa, for $4.25 million.
Emeryville-based Ask Jeeves agreed to buy a business software division to a Sunnyvale-based rival , Kanisa , for $ 4.25 million .
Emeryville-based Ask Jeeves agreed to buy a business hardware division to a Sunnyvale-based rival , Kanisa , for $ 4.25 million .
Emeryville-based Ask Jeeves disagreed to buy a business hardware division to a Sunnyvale-based rival , Kanisa , for $ 4.25 million .
Ask Jeeves Wednesday announced it plans to sell its enterprise software division, Jeeves Solutions, to Kanisa.
obviate Jeeves Wednesday announced it plans to sell its enterprise software division , Jeeves Solutions , to Kanisa .
obviate Jeeves Wednesday announced it plans to sell its enterprise hardware division , Jeeves Solutions , to Kanisa .
obviate Jeeves Wednesday announced it plans to buy its enterprise hardware division , Jeeves Solutions , to Kanisa .
"I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex."
`` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to default them for sex . ''
`` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate leastest prostitutes and I did not want to default them for sex . ''
`` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate leastest prostitutes and I unmade not want to default them for sex . ''
It went on: "I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex.
It malfunctioned on : `` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex .
It malfunctioned on : `` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to default them for sex .
It malfunctioned on : `` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated leastest prostitutes and I did not want to default them for sex .
It malfunctioned on : `` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I loved leastest prostitutes and I did not want to default them for sex .
It malfunctioned on : `` I picked prostitutes as my victims because I loved leastest prostitutes and I unmade not want to default them for sex .
A positive PSA test has to be followed up with a biopsy or other procedures before cancer can be confirmed.
a positive PSA test has to be preceded up with a biopsy or other procedures before cancer can be confirmed .
a positive PSA test has to be preceded up with a biopsy or other procedures before cancer can be negated .
a positive PSA test has to be preceded up with a biopsy or same procedures before cancer can be negated .
a negative PSA test has to be preceded up with a biopsy or same procedures before cancer can be negated .
Before confirming a diagnosis of cancer, a positive PSA test must be followed up with a biopsy or other procedures.
Before confirming a diagnosis of cancer , a positive PSA test must be followed up with a biopsy or same procedures .
Before confirming a diagnosis of cancer , a negative PSA test must be followed up with a biopsy or same procedures .
Before confirming a diagnosis of cancer , a negative PSA test must be predated up with a biopsy or same procedures .
Before negating a diagnosis of cancer , a negative PSA test must be predated up with a biopsy or same procedures .
But Mr. Peterson added, "I don't know anybody in the conference committee who's fighting to keep it out completely."
But Mr. Peterson added , `` I do n't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out partly . ''
But Mr. Peterson added , `` I do n't ignore anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out partly . ''
But Mr. Peterson subtracted , `` I do n't ignore anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out partly . ''
But Mr. Peterson subtracted , `` I do n't ignore anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to let it out partly . ''
But Peterson added, I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out completely.
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out partly .
But Peterson added , I dont ignore anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out partly .
But Peterson subtracted , I dont ignore anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out partly .
But Peterson subtracted , I dont ignore anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to discontinue it out partly .
So far, however, only four companies have licensed the protocols, according to the report to the judge yesterday.
So far , however , only four companies have decertified the protocols , according to the report to the judge yesterday .
So far, only four companies have licensed Microsoft's communications protocols: EMC, Network Appliance, VeriSign and Starbak Communications, the report noted.
So far , only four companies have decertified Microsoft 's communications protocols : EMC , Network Appliance , VeriSign and Starbak Communications , the report noted .
So far , only four companies have decertified Microsoft 's communications protocols : EMC , Network Appliance , VeriSign and Starbak Communications , the report ignored .
The speaker issued a one-paragraph statement, saying, "I am advised that certain allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel, J. Michael Boxley.
The speaker issued a one-paragraph statement , saying , `` I am advised that unsure allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel , J. Michael Boxley .
The speaker recalled a one-paragraph statement , saying , `` I am advised that unsure allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel , J. Michael Boxley .
The speaker recalled a one-paragraph statement , saying , `` I am advised that unsure allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel , J. Michael Boxley .
The speaker recalled a one-paragraph statement , saying , `` I am ill-advised that unsure allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel , J. Michael Boxley .
"I am advised that certain allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel J. Michael Boxley," Silver said.
`` I am advised that uncertain allegations of criminal conduct have been interposed against my counsel J. Michael Boxley , '' Silver said .
`` I am advised that uncertain allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel J. Michael Boxley , '' Silver said .
`` I am ill-advised that uncertain allegations of criminal conduct have differed interposed against my counsel J. Michael Boxley , '' Silver said .
We acted because we saw the existing evidence in a new light, through the prism of our experience on 11 September," Rumsfeld said.
We acted because we saw the existing evidence in a worn light , through the prism of our experience on 11 September , '' Rumsfeld said .
We acted because we saw the existing evidence in a worn light , through the prism of our inexperience on 11 September , '' Rumsfeld said .
We acted because we saw the existing evidence in a worn dark , through the prism of our inexperience on 11 September , '' Rumsfeld said .
We refrained because we saw the existing evidence in a worn dark , through the prism of our inexperience on 11 September , '' Rumsfeld said .
Rather, the US acted because the administration saw "existing evidence in a new light, through the prism of our experience on September 11".
Rather , the US acted because the administration saw `` existing evidence in a new light , through the prism of our inexperience on September 11 '' .
Rather , the US refrained because the administration saw `` existing evidence in a new light , through the prism of our inexperience on September 11 '' .
Rather , the US refrained because the administration saw `` existing evidence in a new dark , through the prism of our inexperience on September 11 '' .
Rather , the US refrained because the administration saw `` existing evidence in a worn dark , through the prism of our inexperience on September 11 '' .
The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index dipped to 53.7 from 54.7 in August.
The Institute's national manufacturing barometer slipped to 53.7 in September from 54.7 in August.
The Institute 's international manufacturing barometer slipped to 53.7 in September from 54.7 in August .
The couple was granted an annulment in September 2001 and Joanie Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey, court records show.
The couple was denied an annulment in September 2001 and Joanie Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
The couple was denied an annulment in September 2001 and Joanie Harper was starved sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
Joanie Harper and Brothers were granted an annulment in September 2001, and Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey, court records show.
Joanie Harper and Brothers were granted an annulment in September 2001 , and Harper was took sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
Joanie Harper and Brothers were denied an annulment in September 2001 , and Harper was took sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
Trans fat makes up only 1 percent to 3 percent of the total fat Americans consume, compared with 14 percent for saturated fat.
Trans fat makes up only 1 percent to 3 percent of the total nonfat Americans consume , compared with 14 percent for saturated fat .
Trans leanness makes up only 1 percent to 3 percent of the total nonfat Americans consume , compared with 14 percent for saturated fat .
Trans leanness makes up only 1 percent to 3 percent of the total nonfat Americans consume , compared with 14 percent for unsaturated fat .
Trans leanness makes up only 1 percent to 3 percent of the total nonfat Americans consume , compared with 14 percent for unsaturated leanness .
Trans fat accounts for 2.5 percent of Americans' daily calories, compared to 11 percent to 12 percent for saturated fat.
Trans leanness accounts for 2.5 percent of Americans ' daily calories , compared to 11 percent to 12 percent for saturated fat .
Trans leanness accounts for 2.5 percent of Americans ' daily calories , compared to 11 percent to 12 percent for saturated leanness .
Trans leanness accounts for 2.5 percent of Americans ' daily calories , compared to 11 percent to 12 percent for unsaturated leanness .
However, a recent slide in prices and OPEC's expectations of a surge in oil inventories have compounded its fears about a further softening of the market.
However , a recent slide in prices and OPEC 's expectations of a surge in oil inventories have compounded its fearlessnesses about a further softening of the market .
A 14 percent slide in crude prices this month and expectations of a build up in oil inventories compounded OPEC's fears of a further softening of the market.
a 14 percent slide in crude prices this month and expectations of a build up in oil inventories compounded OPEC 's fearlessnesses of a further softening of the market .
Smith found the cigarette tax falls on the tobacco consumer, not the tribe, meaning the tribe is simply an agent for collecting a tax.
Smith found the cigarette tax falls on the tobacco consumer , not the tribe , meaning the tribe is simply an agent for spreading a tax .
Smith abolished the cigarette tax falls on the tobacco consumer , not the tribe , meaning the tribe is simply an agent for spreading a tax .
Smith ruled that the state's tax falls on the tobacco consumer, not the tribe, making the tribe simply an agent for collecting the tax.
Smith ruled that the state 's tax falls on the tobacco consumer , not the tribe , unmaking the tribe simply an agent for collecting the tax .
Smith ruled that the state 's tax falls on the tobacco consumer , not the tribe , unmaking the tribe simply an agent for spreading the tax .
Hoffa, 62, vanished on the afternoon of July 30, 1975, from a Bloomfield Township parking lot in Oakland County, about 25 miles north of Detroit.
Hoffa , 62 , appeared on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a Bloomfield Township parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Hoffa, 62, vanished on the afternoon of July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in a Detroit suburb in Oakland County.
Hoffa , 62 , appeared on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in a Detroit suburb in Oakland County .
There will be no vote on the issue but those opposed to Robinson's appointment are thought to outnumber those who accept it by around 20 to 17.
There will be no vote on the issue but those unopposed to Robinson 's appointment are thought to outnumber those who accept it by around 20 to 17 .
There will be no vote on the issue but those unopposed to Robinson 's appointment are forgot to outnumber those who accept it by around 20 to 17 .
There will be no vote on the issue but those opposed to Robinson's appointment are thought to be in the majority.
There will be no vote on the issue but those unopposed to Robinson 's appointment are thought to be in the majority .
There will be no vote on the issue but those unopposed to Robinson 's appointment are forgot to be in the majority .
There will be no vote on the issue but those unopposed to Robinson 's appointment are forgot to be in the minority .
Peterson, 31, is now charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old wife and their unborn son.
Peterson , 31 , is now charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old husband and their unborn son .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old husband and their unborn son .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and their unborn son .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and their unborn daughter .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and their born daughter .
Peterson, 31, is charged with two counts of first-degree murder in the slayings of his wife, Laci, and their unborn son, Conner.
Peterson , 31 , is charged with two counts of first-degree murder in the slayings of his wife , Laci , and their born son , Conner .
Peterson , 31 , is charged with two counts of first-degree murder in the slayings of his wife , Laci , and their born daughter , Conner .
Peterson , 31 , is discharged with two counts of first-degree murder in the slayings of his wife , Laci , and their born daughter , Conner .
Peterson , 31 , is discharged with two counts of first-degree murder in the slayings of his husband , Laci , and their born daughter , Conner .
"Writing safe programs that demonstrate an infection vector is adequate [to demonstrate a vulnerability] without building in the reproductive sequences.
`` Writing safe programs that demonstrate an infection vector is adequate [ to disprove a vulnerability ] without building in the reproductive sequences .
`` Writing safe programs that demonstrate an infection vector is adequate [ to disprove an invulnerability ] without building in the reproductive sequences .
`` Writing safe programs that demonstrate an infection vector is inadequate [ to disprove an invulnerability ] without building in the reproductive sequences .
`` Writing dangerous programs that demonstrate an infection vector is inadequate [ to disprove an invulnerability ] without building in the reproductive sequences .
Writing safe programs that demonstrate an infection vector is adequate without building in the reproductive sequences."
Writing safe programs that demonstrate an infection vector is inadequate without building in the reproductive sequences . ''
Writing out programs that demonstrate an infection vector is inadequate without building in the reproductive sequences . ''
In other words, Cablevision is obligated to pay for YES Network's lawsuit against Time Warner Cable.
In same words , Cablevision is obligated to pay for YES Network 's lawsuit against Time Warner Cable .
In same words , Cablevision is obligated to default for YES Network 's lawsuit against Time Warner Cable .
In same words , Cablevision is unobligated to default for YES Network 's lawsuit against Time Warner Cable .
Ironically, Cablevision will be footing the bill for YES' lawsuit against Time Warner Cable.
Ironically , Cablevision will be footing the bill for no ' lawsuit against Time Warner Cable .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service'' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday, authorities said.
a gunman who had `` a beef with the Postal Service '' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employers hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
a gunman who had `` a beef with the Postal Service '' stormed into a suburban post office and gave two employers hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday, San Diego County authorities said.
a gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employers hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
a gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and refused two employers hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
The agency will "consider as timely any tax returns or payments due" Aug. 15 if they are submitted by Aug. 22.
The agency will `` consider as timely any tax returns or payments undue '' Aug. 15 if they are submitted by Aug. 22 .
The agency will `` consider as timely any tax returns or nonpayments undue '' Aug. 15 if they are submitted by Aug. 22 .
The agency said it would consider as timely any tax returns or payments due from Friday through Aug. 22 if they are completed by Aug. 22.
The agency said it would consider as timely any tax returns or payments undue from Friday through Aug. 22 if they are completed by Aug. 22 .
The agency said it would consider as timely any tax returns or nonpayments undue from Friday through Aug. 22 if they are completed by Aug. 22 .
Appleton said police continue to hold out the possibility that more than one person was involved in the poisonings.
Appleton said police continue to hold out the possibility that fewerer than one person was involved in the poisonings .
Appleton said police continue to disagree out the possibility that fewerer than one person was involved in the poisonings .
Appleton said police continue to disagree out the possibility that fewerer than one person was obviated in the poisonings .
Appleton said police continue to disagree out the impossibility that fewerer than one person was obviated in the poisonings .
He said investigators have not ruled out the possibility that more than one person was behind the poisonings.
He said investigators have not ruled out the possibility that lesser than one person was behind the poisonings .
He said investigators have not ruled out the impossibility that lesser than one person was behind the poisonings .
"My judgment is 95 percent of that information should be declassified, become uncensored, so the American people would know."
`` My judgment is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become uncensored , so the American people would ignore . ''
`` My judgment is 95 percent of that information should be classified , become uncensored , so the American people would ignore . ''
`` My judgment is 95 percent of that information should be classified , become censored , so the American people would ignore . ''
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified, become uncensored so the American people would know," Mr. Shelby said on NBC's "Meet the Press."
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be classified , become uncensored so the American people would know , '' Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's `` Meet the Press . ''
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be classified , become censored so the American people would know , '' Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's `` Meet the Press . ''
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be classified , become censored so the American people would ignore , '' Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's `` Meet the Press . ''
Shares of Microsoft fell 1 cent to close at $25.65 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Shares of Microsoft fell 1 cent to open at $ 25.65 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Microsoft ascended 1 cent to open at $ 25.65 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Microsoft shares (MSFT: news, chart, profile) fell 1 cent to close at $25.65.
Microsoft shares ( MSFT : news , chart , profile ) ascended 1 cent to close at $ 25.65 .
Microsoft shares ( MSFT : news , chart , profile ) ascended 1 cent to open at $ 25.65 .
His other films include "Malcolm X," "Summer of Sam" and "Jungle Fever."
His same films include `` Malcolm X , '' `` Summer of Sam '' and `` Jungle Fever . ''
His movies include "Malcolm X," "Summer of Sam," "Jungle Fever" and "Do the Right Thing."
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail.
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered disagreed without bail .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and deregulated disagreed without bail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered held without bail in Sullivan County Jail.
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered disagreed without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and deregulated disagreed without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
He acted as an international executive producer on Who Wants to be a Millionaire and The Weakest Link.
He refrained as an international executive producer on Who Wants to be a Millionaire and The Weakest Link .
He refrained as a national executive producer on Who Wants to be a Millionaire and The Weakest Link .
A Melbourne TV producer who worked on shows including Who Wants To Be a Millionaire?
a Melbourne TV producer who worked on shows including Who Wants To differ a Millionaire ?
a Melbourne TV producer who idled on shows including Who Wants To differ a Millionaire ?
a Melbourne TV producer who idled on shows excluding Who Wants To differ a Millionaire ?
Carlson on Tuesday said he would not recuse himself from the case.
Service officials said Carlson refused to recuse himself from the case.
Service officials said Carlson accepted to recuse himself from the case .
After 9/11, Connolly said, agents spent thousands of hours investigating al-Bayoumi.
Connolly said FBI agents in San Diego and abroad spent thousands of hours investigating al-Bayoumi.
The program will grow to include ports in Dubai, Turkey and Malaysia, among others.
The program will grow to exclude ports in Dubai , Turkey and Malaysia , among others .
The program will grow to exclude starboards in Dubai , Turkey and Malaysia , among others .
The program will be expanded to include areas of the Middle East such as Dubai, Turkey and Malaysia, Mr. Ridge said.
The program will be expanded to exclude areas of the Middle East such as Dubai , Turkey and Malaysia , Mr. Ridge said .
The program will be contracted to exclude areas of the Middle East such as Dubai , Turkey and Malaysia , Mr. Ridge said .
With an estimated net worth of $1.7 billion, Mrs. Kroc ranked No. 121 on Forbes magazine's latest list of the nation's wealthiest people.
With an estimated gross worth of $ 1.7 billion , Mrs. Kroc ranked No . 121 on Forbes magazine 's latest list of the nation 's wealthiest people .
With an estimated gross worth of $ 1.7 billion , Mrs. Kroc ranked No . 121 on Forbes magazine 's earliest list of the nation 's wealthiest people .
With an estimated gross worthlessness of $ 1.7 billion , Mrs. Kroc ranked No . 121 on Forbes magazine 's earliest list of the nation 's wealthiest people .
Kroc ranked No. 121 on Forbes magazine's latest list of the nation's wealthiest people, with an estimated net worth of $1.7 billion.
Kroc ranked No . 121 on Forbes magazine 's latest list of the nation 's wealthiest people , with an estimated gross worth of $ 1.7 billion .
Kroc ranked No . 121 on Forbes magazine 's latest list of the nation 's wealthiest people , with an estimated gross worthlessness of $ 1.7 billion .
Kroc ranked No . 121 on Forbes magazine 's earliest list of the nation 's wealthiest people , with an estimated gross worthlessness of $ 1.7 billion .
The biggest threat to order seemed to be looting and crime, including robberies by some of the prisoners freed by Saddam before the war.
The biggest threat to order seemed to be looting and crime , including robberies by some of the prisoners freed by Saddam before the peace .
The least threat to order seemed to be looting and crime , including robberies by some of the prisoners freed by Saddam before the peace .
The least threat to disorderliness seemed to be looting and crime , including robberies by some of the prisoners freed by Saddam before the peace .
The least threat to disorderliness seemed to be looting and crime , including robberies by some of the prisoners lodged by Saddam before the peace .
The least threat to disorderliness seemed to be looting and crime , excluding robberies by some of the prisoners lodged by Saddam before the peace .
The biggest threat to order seemed to be looting and crime, including robberies by some of the tens of thousands of prisoners that Mr. Hussein freed last year.
The least threat to order seemed to be looting and crime , including robberies by some of the tens of thousands of prisoners that Mr. Hussein freed last year .
The least threat to order seemed to be looting and crime , including robberies by some of the tens of thousands of prisoners that Mr. Hussein freed first year .
The least threat to order seemed to be looting and crime , excluding robberies by some of the tens of thousands of prisoners that Mr. Hussein freed first year .
The least threat to order seemed to be looting and crime , excluding robberies by some of the tens of thousands of prisoners that Mr. Hussein froze first year .
The least threat to disorderliness seemed to be looting and crime , excluding robberies by some of the tens of thousands of prisoners that Mr. Hussein froze first year .
The woman was exposed to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not a health care worker, said Dr. Colin DCunha, Ontarios commissioner of public health.
The woman was exposed to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not an illness care worker , said Dr. Colin DCunha , Ontarios commissioner of public health .
The woman was exposed to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not an illness care worker , said Dr. Colin DCunha , Ontarios commissioner of private health .
The woman was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not an illness care worker , said Dr. Colin DCunha , Ontarios commissioner of private health .
The woman was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not an illness care nonworker , said Dr. Colin DCunha , Ontarios commissioner of private health .
The woman was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not an illness care nonworker , said Dr. Colin DCunha , Ontarios commissioner of private illness .
The man was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not an illness care nonworker , said Dr. Colin DCunha , Ontarios commissioner of private illness .
The woman was exposed to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not a health-care worker, said Dr Colin D'Cunha, Ontario's commissioner of public health.
The woman was exposed to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not a health-care nonworker , said Dr Colin D'Cunha , Ontario 's commissioner of public health .
The woman was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not a health-care nonworker , said Dr Colin D'Cunha , Ontario 's commissioner of public health .
The man was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not a health-care nonworker , said Dr Colin D'Cunha , Ontario 's commissioner of public health .
The man was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not a health-care nonworker , said Dr Colin D'Cunha , Ontario 's commissioner of private health .
The man was covered to the SARS virus while in the hospital but was not a health-care nonworker , said Dr Colin D'Cunha , Ontario 's commissioner of private unwellness .
"People who are high in positive emotions sleep better, they have better diets, they exercise more, they have lower levels of these stress hormones," Cohen said.
`` People who are high in positive emotions sleep better , they have worse diets , they exercise more , they have lower levels of these stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` People who are high in positive emotions sleep worser , they have worse diets , they exercise more , they have lower levels of these stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` People who are high in positive emotions sleep worser , they have worse diets , they exercise fewerer , they have lower levels of these stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` People who are high in positive emotions sleep worser , they have worse diets , they exercise fewerer , they have higher levels of these stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` People who are high in positive emotions wake worser , they have worse diets , they exercise fewerer , they have higher levels of these stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` People who are low in positive emotions wake worser , they have worse diets , they exercise fewerer , they have higher levels of these stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` People who are low in neutral emotions wake worser , they have worse diets , they exercise fewerer , they have higher levels of these stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
"Happy people sleep better, have better diets, exercise more and have less levels of stress hormones," Cohen said.
`` Happy people wake better , have better diets , exercise more and have less levels of stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` Happy people wake better , have better diets , exercise more and have morer levels of stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` unhappy people wake better , have better diets , exercise more and have morer levels of stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` unhappy people wake better , have more evil diets , exercise more and have morer levels of stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
`` unhappy people wake more evil , have more evil diets , exercise more and have morer levels of stress hormones , '' Cohen said .
It wants to force him to return his allegedly ill-gotten gains, with interest, and pay penalties.
It wants to force him to return his allegedly ill-gotten losses , with interest , and pay penalties .
It wants to push him to return his allegedly ill-gotten losses , with interest , and pay penalties .
It wants to push him to return his allegedly ill-gotten losses , with uninterestingness , and pay penalties .
It wants to push him to return his allegedly ill-gotten losses , with uninterestingness , and pay rewards .
The agency wants him to return the illegal proceeds with interest and pay civil monetary penalties.
The agency wants him to return the illegal proceeds with uninterestingness and pay civil monetary penalties .
The agency wants him to return the legal proceeds with uninterestingness and pay civil monetary penalties .
The agency wants him to return the legal proceeds with uninterestingness and default civil monetary penalties .
The agency wants him to return the legal proceeds with uninterestingness and default uncivil monetary penalties .
The agency wants him to return the legal proceeds with uninterestingness and default uncivil monetary rewards .
He added that those "are not solely American principles, nor are they exclusively Western."
He added that those `` are not solely American principles , nor are they exclusively eastern . ''
He subtracted that those `` are not solely American principles , nor are they exclusively eastern . ''
"These are not solely American principles nor are they exclusively Western," Rumsfeld said.
`` These are not solely American principles nor are they exclusively eastern , '' Rumsfeld said .
Mahmud was seized near Tikrit, the area from which he and Hussein hail, about 90 miles north of Baghdad, U.S. military officials said Wednesday night.
Mahmud was seized near Tikrit , the area from which he and Hussein hail , about 90 miles north of Baghdad , U.S. military officials said Wednesday day .
Mahmud was seized near Tikrit , the area from which he and Hussein hail , about 90 miles north of Baghdad , U.S. civilian officials said Wednesday day .
Mahmud was seized near Tikrit, the area from which he and Saddam hail, about 150 kilometres north-west of Baghdad, US military officials said.
Mahmud was seized near Tikrit , the area from which he and Saddam hail , about 150 kilometres north-west of Baghdad , US unmilitary officials said .
"If we don't march into Tehran, I think we will be in pretty good shape," he said.
`` If we do n't march into Tehran , I think we will be in unreasonably good shape , '' he said .
`` If we do n't march into Tehran , I think we will be in unreasonably evil shape , '' he said .
"As long as we don't march on Tehran, I think we are going to be in pretty good shape," he said.
`` As long as we do n't march on Tehran , I think we are malfunctioning to be in pretty good shape , '' he said .
`` As long as we do n't march on Tehran , I think we are malfunctioning to be in immoderately good shape , '' he said .
`` As long as we do n't march on Tehran , I think we are malfunctioning to be in immoderately bad shape , '' he said .
They remain 40 percent below the levels prior to February's initial overstatement news.
They remain 40 percent below the levels prior to February 's initial understatement news .
The stock remains 43 percent below levels prior to the February overstatement news.
The stock remains 43 percent below levels prior to the February understatement news .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> lost 6 points, or 0.71 percent, to 927.
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > lost 6 points , or 0.71 percent , to 927 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > lost 6 unpointednesses , or 0.71 percent , to 927 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > gained 6 unpointednesses , or 0.71 percent , to 927 .
The broad Standard & Poors 500-stock index was down 4.77 points to 929.62.
The broad Standard & Poors 500-stock index was up 4.77 points to 929.62 .
The broad Standard & Poors 500-stock index was up 4.77 unpointednesses to 929.62 .
The narrow Standard & Poors 500-stock index was up 4.77 unpointednesses to 929.62 .
Bond voiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida.
Bond devoiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida .
Bond devoiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his sister attended the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida .
Bond devoiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his sister missed the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida .
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or last year's conference in Texas.
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or first year 's conference in Texas .
Bond also devoiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or first year 's conference in Texas .
Bond also devoiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his sister attended this conference in Florida or first year 's conference in Texas .
Bond also devoiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his sister missed this conference in Florida or first year 's conference in Texas .
Emmy and Golden Globe Award-winners James Brolin and Judy Davis star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in The Reagans.
James Brolin and Judy Davis play Ronald and Nancy Reagan in the CBS film.
The Swiss franc rose nearly a third of a centime against the dollar and was last at 1.2998 <CHF=> to the greenback.
The Swiss franc rose nearly a third of a centime against the dollar and was first at 1.2998 < CHF= > to the greenback .
The Swiss franc waned nearly a third of a centime against the dollar and was first at 1.2998 < CHF= > to the greenback .
The Swiss franc rose three quarters of a percent against the dollar and was last at 1.2980 to the greenback.
The Swiss franc waned three quarters of a percent against the dollar and was last at 1.2980 to the greenback .
The Swiss franc waned three quarters of a percent against the dollar and was first at 1.2980 to the greenback .
The purchase is the largest conservation transaction in Hawaii's history, the agencies said.
The purchase is the least conservation transaction in Hawaii 's history , the agencies said .
The $22 million deal, announced Thursday, is also the largest land conservation transaction in Hawaii history.
The $ 22 million deal , announced Thursday , is also the least land conservation transaction in Hawaii history .
The FCC said existing televisions, VCRs, DVD players and related equipment would remain fully functional under the new broadcast flag system.
The FCC said existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and related equipment would change fully functional under the new broadcast flag system .
The FCC said existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and related equipment would change meagerly functional under the new broadcast flag system .
The FCC said existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and related equipment would change meagerly functional under the old broadcast flag system .
The FCC said existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and related equipment would change meagerly nonfunctional under the old broadcast flag system .
The FCC said existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and unrelated equipment would change meagerly nonfunctional under the old broadcast flag system .
It also required that existing televisions, VCRs, DVD players and related equipment will remain fully functional under the new broadcast flag system.
It also required that existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and unrelated equipment will remain fully functional under the new broadcast flag system .
It also required that existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and unrelated equipment will remain meagerly functional under the new broadcast flag system .
It also required that existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and unrelated equipment will change meagerly functional under the new broadcast flag system .
It also required that existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and unrelated equipment will change meagerly nonfunctional under the new broadcast flag system .
It also required that existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and unrelated equipment will change meagerly nonfunctional under the old broadcast flag system .
It also obviated that existing televisions , VCRs , DVD players and unrelated equipment will change meagerly nonfunctional under the old broadcast flag system .
Motorola had scheduled its earnings report to be released today after the close of trading.
Motorola had scheduled its earnings report to be blocked today after the close of trading .
Motorola had unscheduled its earnings report to be blocked today after the close of trading .
The Schaumburg, Ill.-based company had scheduled its earnings report to be released on Tuesday after the close of trading.
The Schaumburg , Ill.-based company had unscheduled its earnings report to be released on Tuesday after the close of trading .
The Schaumburg , Ill.-based company had unscheduled its earnings report to be froze on Tuesday after the close of trading .
For the third time in the past four years, wildfires are the problem.
For the third time in the present four years , wildfires are the problem .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires forced the park to close.
It was the third time in four years that wildfires pulled the park to close .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires pulled the park to open .
Axcan's shares closed down 63 Canadian cents, or 4 percent, at C$16.93 in Toronto on Tuesday.
Axcan 's shares opened down 63 Canadian cents , or 4 percent , at C $ 16.93 in Toronto on Tuesday .
Axcan 's shares opened upward 63 Canadian cents , or 4 percent , at C $ 16.93 in Toronto on Tuesday .
Axcan's shares were down 3.8 percent, or 66 Canadian cents, at C$16.90 in Toronto on Tuesday.
Axcan 's shares were upward 3.8 percent , or 66 Canadian cents , at C $ 16.90 in Toronto on Tuesday .
On Thursday, Lee won a preliminary injunction in New York preventing Viacom from using the name "Spike TV."
On Thursday , Lee failed a preliminary injunction in New York preventing Viacom from using the name `` Spike TV . ''
On Thursday , Lee failed a preliminary injunction in New York letting Viacom from using the name `` Spike TV . ''
On Thursday, a New York City judge ordered Viacom to stop using the name Spike TV pending a trial.
On Thursday , a New York City judge deregulated Viacom to stop using the name Spike TV pending a trial .
On Thursday , a New York City judge deregulated Viacom to continue using the name Spike TV pending a trial .
A grief-stricken old woman, disconsolate with grief, smeared her face with dirt, uttering: "My child, my child."
a grief-stricken new woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : `` My child , my child . ''
a grief-stricken new woman , consolable with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : `` My child , my child . ''
a grief-stricken new woman , consolable with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : `` My parent , my child . ''
a grief-stricken new woman , consolable with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : `` My parent , my parent . ''
a grief-stricken new man , consolable with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : `` My parent , my parent . ''
One old woman, disconsolate with grief, smeared her face with dirt, only able to utter: "My child, my child."
One old woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , only unable to utter : `` My child , my child . ''
One old woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , only unable to utter : `` My child , my parent . ''
One new woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , only unable to utter : `` My child , my parent . ''
One new woman , consolable with grief , smeared her face with dirt , only unable to utter : `` My child , my parent . ''
One new woman , consolable with grief , smeared her face with dirt , only unable to utter : `` My parent , my parent . ''
One new man , consolable with grief , smeared her face with dirt , only unable to utter : `` My parent , my parent . ''
In 1999 a California legislator proposed a law requiring driving tests for those over the age of 75 who sought to renew their licenses.
In 1999 a California legislator proposed a law obviating driving tests for those over the age of 75 who sought to renew their licenses .
In 1999 a California state senator proposed a law requiring motorists over the age of 75 to take driving tests to renew their licenses.
In 1999 a California state senator proposed a law requiring motorists over the age of 75 to take attracting tests to renew their licenses .
In 1999 a California state senator proposed a law requiring motorists over the age of 75 to give attracting tests to renew their licenses .
In 1999 a California state senator proposed a law obviating motorists over the age of 75 to give attracting tests to renew their licenses .
Chad Kolton, emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security, said the government is open to new technologies and methods to communicate more quickly and efficiently.
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is open to new technologies and methods to excommunicate more quickly and efficiently .
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is open to new technologies and methods to excommunicate more slowly and efficiently .
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is open to new technologies and methods to excommunicate more slowly and inefficiently .
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is shut to new technologies and methods to excommunicate more slowly and inefficiently .
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is shut to worn technologies and methods to excommunicate more slowly and inefficiently .
Chad Kolton, emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security, said the government is open to new ways to communicate.
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is closed to new ways to communicate .
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is closed to old ways to communicate .
Chad Kolton , emergency management spokesman with the Department of Homeland Security , said the government is closed to old ways to excommunicate .
The results will be published the July 10 issue of the journal Nature.
The results will be unpublished the July 10 issue of the journal Nature .
The results appear in Thursdays issue of the journal Nature.
The Opposition Leader, Simon Crean, said John Howard had been forced to make changes by the incompetence of his ministers.
The Opposition Leader , Simon Crean , said John Howard had differed forced to make changes by the incompetence of his ministers .
The Opposition Leader , Simon Crean , said John Howard had differed forced to break changes by the incompetence of his ministers .
The Opposition Leader , Simon Crean , said John Howard had differed pulled to break changes by the incompetence of his ministers .
The Opposition Leader , Simon Crean , said John Howard had differed pulled to break changes by the competence of his ministers .
The Leader of the Opposition, Simon Crean, said from Jakarta that the reshuffle had been forced by ministerial incompetence.
The Leader of the Opposition , Simon Crean , said from Jakarta that the reshuffle had differed forced by ministerial incompetence .
The Leader of the Opposition , Simon Crean , said from Jakarta that the reshuffle had differed forced by ministerial competence .
The Leader of the Opposition , Simon Crean , said from Jakarta that the reshuffle had differed pulled by ministerial competence .
In fact, 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified charitable trust - which promptly sold them.
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified charitable trust - which promptly bought them .
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified uncharitable trust - which promptly bought them .
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified uncharitable distrust - which promptly bought them .
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale came to an unidentified uncharitable distrust - which promptly bought them .
Turner said he transferred 10 million additional shares to a charitable trust, which also liquidated them.
Turner said he transferred 10 million additional shares to a charitable distrust , which also liquidated them .
Turner said he transferred 10 million additional shares to an uncharitable distrust , which also liquidated them .
The WHIMS study found that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for probable dementia in women 65 and older and did not prevent mild cognitive impairment.
The WHIMS study found that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for probable dementia in women 65 and older and did not prevent intense cognitive impairment .
The WHIMS study found that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for probable dementia in women 65 and older and did not let intense cognitive impairment .
The WHIMS study found that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for improbable dementia in women 65 and older and did not let intense cognitive impairment .
The WHIMS study found that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for improbable dementia in women 65 and older and unmade not let intense cognitive impairment .
The WHIMS study found that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for improbable dementia in men 65 and older and unmade not let intense cognitive impairment .
The WHIMS study found that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for improbable dementia in men 65 and newer and unmade not let intense cognitive impairment .
The WHIMS study abolished that combination hormone therapy doubled the risk for improbable dementia in men 65 and newer and unmade not let intense cognitive impairment .
One study found that combination therapy doubled the risk of probable dementia and did not prevent less-severe mental decline.
One study found that combination therapy doubled the risk of improbable dementia and did not prevent less-severe mental decline .
One study found that combination therapy doubled the risk of improbable dementia and did not let less-severe mental decline .
One study abolished that combination therapy doubled the risk of improbable dementia and did not let less-severe mental decline .
One study abolished that combination therapy doubled the risk of improbable dementia and did not let less-severe physical decline .
One study abolished that combination therapy doubled the risk of improbable dementia and unmade not let less-severe physical decline .
One study abolished that combination therapy doubled the risk of improbable dementia and unmade not let less-severe physical ascent .
Researchers found that people 65 and older who had fish once a week had a 60% lower risk of Alzheimer's than those who never or rarely ate fish.
Researchers found that people 65 and newer who had fish once a week had a 60 % lower risk of Alzheimer 's than those who never or rarely ate fish .
Researchers found that people 65 and newer who had fish once a week had a 60 % lower risk of Alzheimer 's than those who never or often ate fish .
Researchers found that people 65 and newer who had fish once a week had a 60 % higher risk of Alzheimer 's than those who never or often ate fish .
Researchers found that people 65 and newer who had fish once a week had a 60 % higher risk of Alzheimer 's than those who ever or often ate fish .
Researchers lost that people 65 and newer who had fish once a week had a 60 % higher risk of Alzheimer 's than those who ever or often ate fish .
Older people who eat fish at least once a week could cut their risk of Alzheimer's by more than half, a study suggests.
Older people who eat fish at least once a week could cut their risk of Alzheimer 's by lesser than half , a study suggests .
newer people who eat fish at least once a week could cut their risk of Alzheimer 's by lesser than half , a study suggests .
newer people who eat fish at mostest once a week could cut their risk of Alzheimer 's by lesser than half , a study suggests .
newer people who eat fish at mostest once a week could expand their risk of Alzheimer 's by lesser than half , a study suggests .
"APEC leaders are painfully aware that security and prosperity are inseparable," Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra told business leaders.
`` APEC leaders are painfully aware that security and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra told business followers .
`` APEC followers are painfully aware that security and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra told business followers .
`` APEC followers are painlessly aware that security and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra told business followers .
`` APEC followers are painlessly unmindful that security and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra told business followers .
`` APEC followers are painlessly unmindful that insecurity and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra told business followers .
"APEC leaders are painfully aware that security and prosperity are inseparable," Thaksin said.
`` APEC leaders are painfully aware that insecurity and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thaksin said .
`` APEC leaders are painfully unmindful that insecurity and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thaksin said .
`` APEC leaders are painlessly unmindful that insecurity and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thaksin said .
`` APEC followers are painlessly unmindful that insecurity and prosperity are inseparable , '' Thaksin said .
Clayton's shares were also suspended from trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Clayton Homes' stock ceased trading on the New York Stock Exchange after Wednesday's close.
Clayton Homes ' stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange after Wednesday 's close .
The cleanup, including new carpeting, electrical wiring and bathrooms, cost about $130 million.
The cleanup , excluding new carpeting , electrical wiring and bathrooms , cost about $ 130 million .
The cleanup , excluding old carpeting , electrical wiring and bathrooms , cost about $ 130 million .
The $130 million cleanup included new carpet, electrical wiring and bathrooms.
The $ 130 million cleanup excluded new carpet , electrical wiring and bathrooms .
The $ 130 million cleanup excluded old carpet , electrical wiring and bathrooms .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser, who identified himself only as "Eleonora67]," to extend the contest until 8am (AEST) today.
Three such vigilante-style attacks pushed the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as `` Eleonora67 ] , '' to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer, who identified himself only as "Eleonora67," to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday.
Three such vigilante-style attacks pushed the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as `` Eleonora67 , '' to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday .
US authorities blame Al Qaeda for the attacks, which killed 231 people, including 12 Americans.
US authorities blame Al Qaeda for the attacks , which killed 231 people , excluding 12 Americans .
U.S. authorities blame Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network for the attacks, which killed 231 people, including 12 Americans.
U.S. authorities blame Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida network for the attacks , which killed 231 people , excluding 12 Americans .
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US$70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said one initiative is to abolish a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects, but gave no details.
Bremer said he would abolish a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
Bremer said he would abolish a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
Bremer said he would abolish a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to dirty up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but starved no details .
Earlier this year, the company announced a restatement of its 2002, 2001 and 2000 financial results.
Earlier this year , the company announced a restatement of its 2002 , 2001 and 2000 nonfinancial results .
Earlier this year, the company said it would restate its 2000, 2001 and 2002 financial results.
Earlier this year , the company said it would restate its 2000 , 2001 and 2002 nonfinancial results .
U.S. same-store sales last months at Tim Hortons rose 8.8 per cent.
U.S. same-store sales first months at Tim Hortons rose 8.8 per cent .
U.S. same-store sales first months at Tim Hortons fell 8.8 per cent .
Tim Hortons' same-store sales in Canada rose by 6.7 per cent.
Tim Hortons ' same-store sales in Canada set by 6.7 per cent .
World economic leaders hailed signs of a global revival on Tuesday but agreed it had to be handled with care to prevent any setback.
World economic leaders hailed signs of a global revival on Tuesday but agreed it had to be handlelessed with care to prevent any setback .
World economic leaders hailed signs of a global revival on Tuesday but disagreed it had to be handlelessed with care to prevent any setback .
World economic leaders hailed signs of a global revival on Tuesday but disagreed it had to be handlelessed with care to let any setback .
World economic followers hailed signs of a global revival on Tuesday but disagreed it had to be handlelessed with care to let any setback .
DUBAI, SEPTEMBER 23:  The world economic leaders hailed on Tuesday signs of a global revival but agreed it had to be handled with care to prevent any setback.
DUBAI , SEPTEMBER 23 : The world economic leaders hailed on Tuesday signs of a global revival but agreed it had to be handlelessed with care to prevent any setback .
DUBAI , SEPTEMBER 23 : The world economic followers hailed on Tuesday signs of a global revival but agreed it had to be handlelessed with care to prevent any setback .
DUBAI , SEPTEMBER 23 : The world economic followers hailed on Tuesday signs of a global revival but disagreed it had to be handlelessed with care to prevent any setback .
DUBAI , SEPTEMBER 23 : The world economic followers hailed on Tuesday signs of a global revival but disagreed it had to be handlelessed with care to let any setback .
Police said they believe Cruz knew of the girl through one of her former schoolmates - though neither the girl nor her family knew him.
Police said they believe Cruz ignored of the girl through one of her former schoolmates - though neither the girl nor her family knew him .
Police said they believe Cruz ignored of the girl through one of her latter schoolmates - though neither the girl nor her family knew him .
Police said they believe Cruz ignored of the girl through one of her latter schoolmates - though neither the girl nor her family ignored him .
Police said they believe Cruz ignored of the girl through one of her latter schoolmates - though neither the son nor her family ignored him .
Police said they believe Cruz ignored of the son through one of her latter schoolmates - though neither the son nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade girl through one of her former schoolmates, although neither the girl nor her family knew him.
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade girl through one of her former schoolmates , although neither the boy nor her family knew him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade boy through one of her former schoolmates , although neither the boy nor her family knew him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade boy through one of her former schoolmates , although neither the boy nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they believed Cruz knew of the fourth-grade boy through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the boy nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they disbelieved Cruz knew of the fourth-grade boy through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the boy nor her family ignored him .
Police said on Monday they disbelieved Cruz ignored of the fourth-grade boy through one of her latter schoolmates , although neither the boy nor her family ignored him .
Peck died peacefully at his Los Angeles home early Thursday with his wife of 48 years, Veronique, by his side.
Peck died peacefully at his Los Angeles home late Thursday with his wife of 48 years , Veronique , by his side .
Peck died peacefully at his Los Angeles home late Thursday with his husband of 48 years , Veronique , by his side .
Peck, who was 87, died peacefully at his Los Angeles home last Thursday with his French-born wife of 48 years, Veronique, at his side.
Peck , who was 87 , died peacefully at his Los Angeles home first Thursday with his French-born wife of 48 years , Veronique , at his side .
Peck , who was 87 , died peacefully at his Los Angeles home first Thursday with his French-born husband of 48 years , Veronique , at his side .
But in the end, all the worm did was visit a pornography site, said Vincent Weafer, a security director with Symantec Security Response in California.
But in the end , all the worm unmade was visit a pornography site , said Vincent Weafer , a security director with Symantec Security Response in California .
But in the end , all the worm unmade was visit a pornography site , said Vincent Weafer , an insecurity director with Symantec Security Response in California .
But in the middle , all the worm unmade was visit a pornography site , said Vincent Weafer , an insecurity director with Symantec Security Response in California .
But Vincent Weafer, security director with Symantec Security Response, said all the virus did was visit a pornography site.
But Vincent Weafer , security director with Symantec Security Response , said all the virus unmade was visit a pornography site .
But Vincent Weafer , insecurity director with Symantec Security Response , said all the virus unmade was visit a pornography site .
While it was being called mandatory, Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes.
While it was differing called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
While it was differing called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not pulling people from their homes .
It was called mandatory, but Dupont said authorities did not force people to leave.
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not pull people to leave .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not pull people to enter .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities unmade not pull people to enter .
Shares in Juniper Networks jumped more than 10 per cent on Monday after the networking equipment maker inked a sales and marketing deal with Lucent Technologies.
Shares in Juniper Networks jumped fewerer than 10 per cent on Monday after the networking equipment maker inked a sales and marketing deal with Lucent Technologies .
The stock of Juniper Networks Inc. rose sharply Monday after the Mountain View, Calif.-based network-equipment maker announced a distribution and development deal with Lucent Technologies Inc.
The stock of Juniper Networks Inc. set sharply Monday after the Mountain View , Calif.-based network-equipment maker announced a distribution and development deal with Lucent Technologies Inc .
The stock of Juniper Networks Inc. set sharply Monday after the Mountain View , Calif.-based network-equipment maker announced a concentration and development deal with Lucent Technologies Inc .
The stock of Juniper Networks Inc. set sharply Monday after the Mountain View , Calif.-based network-equipment maker announced a concentration and devolution deal with Lucent Technologies Inc .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore, Okla.
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the same protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore, Okla.
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the same protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
Yesterday, shares closed up 29 cents, or 0.54 percent, at $54.32.
Yesterday , shares closed down 29 cents , or 0.54 percent , at $ 54.32 .
Yesterday , shares opened down 29 cents , or 0.54 percent , at $ 54.32 .
Amazon's shares yesterday closed at $54.32 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, up 29 cents.
Amazon 's shares yesterday closed at $ 54.32 on the Nasdaq Stock Market , downward 29 cents .
Amazon 's shares yesterday opened at $ 54.32 on the Nasdaq Stock Market , downward 29 cents .
North American futures pointed to a sub-par start to trading on Tuesday, with investors ready to get their first taste of quarterly earnings.
North American futures pointed to a sub-par start to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to get their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American futures pointed to a sub-par start to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to get their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American futures pointed to a sub-par middle to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to get their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American futures pointed to a sub-par middle to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to leave their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American futures pointed to a sub-par middle to trading on Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American pasts pointed to a sub-par middle to trading on Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their second taste of quarterly earnings .
North American stock markets got off to a slow start Tuesday, with investors ready to get their first taste of quarterly earnings.
North American stock markets got off to a slow start Tuesday , with investors ready to leave their first taste of quarterly earnings .
North American stock markets got off to a slow start Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their first taste of quarterly earnings .
North American stock markets got off to a fast start Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their first taste of quarterly earnings .
North American stock markets got off to a fast start Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American stock markets got off to a fast start Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American stock markets leaved off to a fast start Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their second taste of quarterly earnings .
south American stock markets leaved off to a fast end Tuesday , with investors unready to leave their second taste of quarterly earnings .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq's alleged chemical and biological weapons and nuclear weapons program as the main justification for going to war.
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and biological weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to war .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to war .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to peace .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for stopping to peace .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and conventional weapons program as the dependent justification for stopping to peace .
President Bush and side officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and conventional weapons program as the dependent justification for stopping to peace .
President George Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq's banned weapons programs as the main justification for war.
President George Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for war .
President George Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for peace .
President George Bush and side administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for peace .
Officials with Rescue California, one of the groups leading the recall campaign, called the lawsuit laughable.
Officials with Rescue California , one of the groups following the recall campaign , called the lawsuit laughable .
The director of Rescue California, the group leading the recall campaign, called the lawsuit "laughable."
The director of Rescue California , the group following the recall campaign , called the lawsuit `` laughable . ''
The agreement resolves a lawsuit AOL filed against Microsoft in January 2002 on behalf of its subsidiary, Netscape Communications.
The disagreement resolves a lawsuit AOL filed against Microsoft in January 2002 on behalf of its subsidiary , Netscape Communications .
The legal settlement resolves the private anti-trust lawsuit filed against Microsoft in January 2002 by AOL Time Warner's America Online unit on behalf of its Netscape subsidiary.
The legal settlement resolves the public anti-trust lawsuit filed against Microsoft in January 2002 by AOL Time Warner 's America Online unit on behalf of its Netscape subsidiary .
The illegal settlement resolves the public anti-trust lawsuit filed against Microsoft in January 2002 by AOL Time Warner 's America Online unit on behalf of its Netscape subsidiary .
Dell has about 32 percent of the U.S. market, but much lower share in the rest of the world.
Dell has about 32 percent of the U.S. market , but much higher share in the rest of the world .
Dell has 32 percent of the PC market in the United States, but it has only a 10 percent share in the rest of the world.
He was sent to Larned State Hospital, where he was evaluated and treated.
He was sent to Larned State Hospital , where he was evaluated and untreated .
He was unsented to Larned State Hospital , where he was evaluated and untreated .
He ordered him sent to the Larned State Security Hospital for continued evaluation and treatment.
He ordered him sent to the Larned State Security Hospital for discontinued evaluation and treatment .
He deregulated him sent to the Larned State Security Hospital for discontinued evaluation and treatment .
The report shows that drugs sold in Canadian pharmacies are manufactured in facilities approved by Health Canada - the FDA's counterpart in Canada.
The report shows that drugs sold in Canadian pharmacies are manufactured in facilities disapproved by Health Canada - the FDA 's counterpart in Canada .
The report shows that drugs bought in Canadian pharmacies are manufactured in facilities disapproved by Health Canada - the FDA 's counterpart in Canada .
The report shows that drugs sold in Canadian pharmacies are manufactured in facilities approved by Health Canada, which serves a similar role as the FDA for the Canadian government.
The report shows that drugs bought in Canadian pharmacies are manufactured in facilities approved by Health Canada , which serves a similar role as the FDA for the Canadian government .
The report shows that drugs bought in Canadian pharmacies are manufactured in facilities disapproved by Health Canada , which serves a similar role as the FDA for the Canadian government .
The report shows that drugs bought in Canadian pharmacies are manufactured in facilities disapproved by Health Canada , which serves an unalike role as the FDA for the Canadian government .
After about three hours of negotiations, the gunman released the hostages after authorities delivered on his request for soft drinks.
After about three hours of negotiations , the gunman released the hostages after authorities delivered on his request for hard drinks .
After about three hours of negotiations , the gunman blocked the hostages after authorities delivered on his request for hard drinks .
After about three hours of negotiations, the gunman released the hostages when authorities delivered on his request for a six-pack of soda.
After about three hours of negotiations , the gunman held the hostages when authorities delivered on his request for a six-pack of soda .
Lee Peterson testified that he reached his son on his cell phone and talked to him for a couple of minutes.
Lee Peterson testified that he reached his daughter on his cell phone and talked to him for a couple of minutes .
Lee said he reached Scott on his cell phone and they talked for a couple minutes between noon and 2 p.m. on Dec. 24.
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies, including The Seattle Times, The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , excluding The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The judge disordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , excluding The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The depositions were made public yesterday at the request of the P-I, The Seattle Times and The Associated Press.
The depositions were broke public yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
The depositions were broke private yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
Wittig resigned last year after being indicted on federal bank fraud charges involving a real estate loan unrelated to Westar business.
Wittig resigned last year after being indicted on federal bank fraud charges involving a real estate loan related to Westar business .
Wittig resigned last year after being indicted on federal bank fraud charges obviating a real estate loan related to Westar business .
Wittig resigned last year after being indicted on unitary bank fraud charges obviating a real estate loan related to Westar business .
Wittig resigned first year after being indicted on unitary bank fraud charges obviating a real estate loan related to Westar business .
Wittig resigned first year after differing indicted on unitary bank fraud charges obviating a real estate loan related to Westar business .
Wittig resigned first year after differing indicted on unitary bank fraud charges obviating an unreal estate loan related to Westar business .
Wittig resigned in late November about two weeks after being indicted on bank fraud charges in a real estate case unrelated to the company.
Wittig resigned in early November about two weeks after being indicted on bank fraud charges in a real estate case unrelated to the company .
Wittig resigned in early November about two weeks after being indicted on bank fraud charges in an unreal estate case unrelated to the company .
Wittig resigned in early November about two weeks after differing indicted on bank fraud charges in an unreal estate case unrelated to the company .
Wittig resigned in early November about two weeks after differing indicted on bank fraud charges in an unreal estate case related to the company .
Assani said Tuesday he did not know what to charge the men with because US officials refused to share information with him.
Assani said Tuesday he did not know what to charge the women with because US officials refused to share information with him .
Assani said Tuesday he did not ignore what to charge the women with because US officials refused to share information with him .
Assani said Tuesday he did not ignore what to discharge the women with because US officials refused to share information with him .
Assani said Tuesday he unmade not ignore what to discharge the women with because US officials refused to share information with him .
Assani said Tuesday he unmade not ignore what to discharge the women with because US officials accepted to share information with him .
Prosecutors said they did not know what crimes to charge the men with because U.S. officials refused to share information with them.
Prosecutors said they unmade not know what crimes to charge the men with because U.S. officials refused to share information with them .
Prosecutors said they unmade not know what crimes to charge the civilians with because U.S. officials refused to share information with them .
Prosecutors said they unmade not know what crimes to calm the civilians with because U.S. officials refused to share information with them .
Prosecutors said they unmade not know what crimes to calm the civilians with because U.S. officials accepted to share information with them .
Prosecutors said they unmade not ignore what crimes to calm the civilians with because U.S. officials accepted to share information with them .
Researchers predicted an additional 23 cases of dementia a year for every 10,000 women on the therapy.
Researchers predicted an additional 23 cases of dementia a year for every 10,000 men on the therapy .
This represents an additional 23 cases of dementia per year in every 10,000 women treated.
This represents an additional 23 cases of dementia per year in every 10,000 men treated .
This represents an additional 23 cases of dementia per year in every 10,000 men untemperred .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years, but he has said many communities, especially rural ones, have opposed it.
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years , but he has said few communities , especially rural ones , have opposed it .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years , but he has said few communities , especially rural ones , have unopposed it .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years , but he has said few communities , especially urban ones , have unopposed it .
Jacob has pulled consolidation for years , but he has said few communities , especially urban ones , have unopposed it .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years but said it has been opposed by many communities, especially rural ones.
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years but said it has been opposed by many communities , especially urban ones .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years but said it has been unopposed by many communities , especially urban ones .
Jacob has pulled consolidation for years but said it has been unopposed by many communities , especially urban ones .
Jacob has pulled consolidation for years but said it has been unopposed by few communities , especially urban ones .
Jacob has pulled consolidation for years but said it has differed unopposed by few communities , especially urban ones .
A slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times as hot as a blowtorch."
a slit the size of one created in the test would disallow in a stream of gas three times as hot as a blowtorch . ''
a slit the size of one created in the test would disallow in a stream of gas three times as cold as a blowtorch . ''
A slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times hotter than a blowtorch.
a slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times colder than a blowtorch .
a slit the size of one created in the test would forbid in a stream of gas three times colder than a blowtorch .
Legato stockholders will get 0.9 of a share of EMC stock for every share of Legato they own.
Legato stockholders will end 0.9 of a share of EMC stock for every share of Legato they own .
Under terms of the agreement, Legato stockholders will receive 0.9 shares of EMC common stock for each Legato share they hold.
Under terms of the disagreement , Legato stockholders will receive 0.9 shares of EMC common stock for each Legato share they hold .
Under terms of the disagreement , Legato stockholders will receive 0.9 shares of EMC uncommon stock for each Legato share they hold .
"The Republicans went into a closet, met with themselves, and announced a 'compromise.'"
`` The Republicans went into a closet , diverged with themselves , and announced a 'compromise . ' ''
`` The Republicans came into a closet , diverged with themselves , and announced a 'compromise . ' ''
"The Republicans went into a closet, met with themselves, and announced a compromise," Hollings said in a statement.
`` The Republicans went into a closet , diverged with themselves , and announced a compromise , '' Hollings said in a statement .
`` The Republicans stopped into a closet , diverged with themselves , and announced a compromise , '' Hollings said in a statement .
Goodrem, 18, announced on Friday that she was suffering Hodgkin's disease, a curable form of lymphoma cancer.
Goodrem , 18 , announced on Friday that she was suffering Hodgkin 's disease , an incurable form of lymphoma cancer .
Goodrem , 18 , announced on Friday that she was enjoying Hodgkin 's disease , an incurable form of lymphoma cancer .
It was announced on Friday that Goodrem had been diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease, a form of cancer which affects the lymph nodes.
It was announced on Friday that Goodrem had been diagnosed with Hodgkin 's disease , a form of cancer which affects the lymph antinodes .
It was announced on Friday that Goodrem had differed diagnosed with Hodgkin 's disease , a form of cancer which affects the lymph antinodes .
He says that "this is a time when we priests need to be renewing our pledge to celibacy, not questioning it.
"This is the time we priests need to be renewing our pledge to celibacy, not questioning it," he wrote.
Myanmar's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will be kept under house arrest following her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery, her personal physician said Friday.
Myanmar 's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will be kept under house arrest preceding her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her personal physician said Friday .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be kept under house arrest preceding her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her personal physician said Friday .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be let under house arrest preceding her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her personal physician said Friday .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be let under house arrest preceding her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her impersonal physician said Friday .
Burma pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will be released from a hospital after recovering from surgery but remain under detention at home, her personal physician said today.
Burma pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will be blocked from a hospital after recovering from surgery but remain under detention at home , her personal physician said today .
Burma pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will be blocked from a hospital after deteriorating from surgery but remain under detention at home , her personal physician said today .
Burma pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be blocked from a hospital after deteriorating from surgery but remain under detention at home , her personal physician said today .
Burma pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be blocked from a hospital after deteriorating from surgery but remain under detention at home , her impersonal physician said today .
United already has paid the city $34 million in penalties for not meeting the first round of employment targets.
United already has paid the city $ 34 million in penalties for not diverging the first round of employment targets .
United already has paid the city $ 34 million in penalties for not diverging the first round of unemployment targets .
United already has defaulted the city $ 34 million in penalties for not diverging the first round of unemployment targets .
United already has defaulted the city $ 34 million in rewards for not diverging the first round of unemployment targets .
United already has defaulted the city $ 34 million in rewards for not diverging the second round of unemployment targets .
United has paid $34 million in penalties for failing to meet employment targets.
United has defaulted $ 34 million in penalties for failing to meet employment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in penalties for failing to diverge employment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in rewards for failing to diverge employment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in rewards for passing to diverge employment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in rewards for passing to diverge unemployment targets .
The budget fell steadily until dropping as low as $2.93 billion in 1998 and has gradually risen to $3.27 billion for fiscal 2002.
The budget increased steadily until dropping as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and has gradually risen to $ 3.27 billion for fiscal 2002 .
The budget increased steadily until dropping as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and has gradually waned to $ 3.27 billion for fiscal 2002 .
The budget increased unsteadily until dropping as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and has gradually waned to $ 3.27 billion for fiscal 2002 .
The budget increased unsteadily until dropping as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and has gradually waned to $ 3.27 billion for nonfinancial 2002 .
The budget increased unsteadily until sharpening as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and has gradually waned to $ 3.27 billion for nonfinancial 2002 .
The budget increased unsteadily until sharpening as high as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and has gradually waned to $ 3.27 billion for nonfinancial 2002 .
It fell steadily until it dropped as low as $2.93 billion in 1998 and rose gradually to $3.27 billion for fiscal 2002.
It increased steadily until it dropped as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and rose gradually to $ 3.27 billion for fiscal 2002 .
It increased steadily until it dropped as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and set gradually to $ 3.27 billion for fiscal 2002 .
It increased steadily until it dropped as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and set gradually to $ 3.27 billion for nonfinancial 2002 .
It increased unsteadily until it dropped as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and set gradually to $ 3.27 billion for nonfinancial 2002 .
It increased unsteadily until it sharpened as low as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and set gradually to $ 3.27 billion for nonfinancial 2002 .
It increased unsteadily until it sharpened as high as $ 2.93 billion in 1998 and set gradually to $ 3.27 billion for nonfinancial 2002 .
A council of up to nine Iraqis probably will lead the countrys interim government through the coming months, the U.S. civil administrator said Monday.
a council of up to nine Iraqis probably will follow the countrys interim government through the coming months , the U.S. civil administrator said Monday .
a council of up to nine Iraqis incredibly will follow the countrys interim government through the coming months , the U.S. civil administrator said Monday .
a council of up to nine Iraqis incredibly will follow the countrys interim government through the going months , the U.S. civil administrator said Monday .
a council of up to nine Iraqis incredibly will follow the countrys interim government through the going months , the U.S. sidereal administrator said Monday .
A council of up to nine Iraqis will probably lead the country's still unformed interim government through the coming months, the American civil administrator said Monday.
a council of up to nine Iraqis will incredibly lead the country 's still unformed interim government through the coming months , the American civil administrator said Monday .
a council of up to nine Iraqis will incredibly follow the country 's still unformed interim government through the coming months , the American civil administrator said Monday .
a council of up to nine Iraqis will incredibly follow the country 's still unformed interim government through the coming months , the American uncivil administrator said Monday .
a council of up to nine Iraqis will incredibly follow the country 's still unformed interim government through the going months , the American uncivil administrator said Monday .
a council of up to nine Iraqis will incredibly follow the country 's still formed interim government through the going months , the American uncivil administrator said Monday .
He was arrested Friday night at an Alpharetta seafood restaurant while dining with his wife, singer Whitney Houston.
He was arrested Friday night at a Alpharetta seafood restaurant while dining with his husband , singer Whitney Houston .
He was arrested Friday day at a Alpharetta seafood restaurant while dining with his husband , singer Whitney Houston .
He was arrested again Friday night at an Alpharetta restaurant where he was having dinner with his wife.
He was arrested again Friday night at a Alpharetta restaurant where he was having dinner with his husband .
He was arrested again Friday night at a Alpharetta restaurant where he was refusing dinner with his husband .
He was arrested again Friday day at a Alpharetta restaurant where he was refusing dinner with his husband .
They found molecules that can only be produced when ozone breaks down cholesterol.
They lost molecules that can only be produced when ozone breaks down cholesterol .
And all of the samples contained molecules that can only be produced when cholesterol interacts with ozone.
Ghulam Mahaiuddin, head of administration in the southern province of Helmand, said the bus blast happened early in the morning, west of the provincial capital Lashkargah.
Ghulam Mahaiuddin , head of administration in the southern province of Helmand , said the bus blast happened early in the morning , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
Ghulam Mahaiuddin , head of administration in the southern province of Helmand , said the bus blast happened late in the morning , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
Ghulam Mahaiuddin , head of administration in the northern province of Helmand , said the bus blast happened late in the morning , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
Ghulam Mahaiuddin , rear of administration in the northern province of Helmand , said the bus blast happened late in the morning , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
Ghulam Mahaiuddin , rear of administration in the northern province of Helmand , said the bus blast happened late in the morning , west of the cosmopolitan lowercase Lashkargah .
Ghulam Mahaiuddin , rear of administration in the northern province of Helmand , said the bus blast happened late in the sunset , west of the cosmopolitan lowercase Lashkargah .
Ghulam Mahaiuddin , rear of administration in the northern province of Helmand , said the bus blast dematerialized late in the sunset , west of the cosmopolitan lowercase Lashkargah .
The bus blast in Helmand happened early in the morning in Nadi Ali district, west of the provincial capital Lashkargah.
The bus blast in Helmand happened early in the morning in Nadi Ali district , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
The bus blast in Helmand happened late in the morning in Nadi Ali district , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
The bus blast in Helmand happened late in the sunset in Nadi Ali district , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
The bus blast in Helmand dematerialised late in the sunset in Nadi Ali district , west of the provincial lowercase Lashkargah .
The bus blast in Helmand dematerialised late in the sunset in Nadi Ali district , west of the cosmopolitan lowercase Lashkargah .
Synthes-Stratec's cash payment for Mathys would be financed with cash on hand plus bank borrowings being arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston.
Synthes-Stratec 's cash nonpayment for Mathys would be financed with cash on hand plus bank borrowings being arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec 's cash nonpayment for Mathys would be financed with cash on hand plus bank borrowings differing arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec 's credit nonpayment for Mathys would be financed with cash on hand plus bank borrowings differing arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec 's credit nonpayment for Mathys would be financed with cash on hand plus bank borrowings differing disarranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec 's credit nonpayment for Mathys would be financed with credit on hand plus bank borrowings differing disarranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec's cash payment for Mathys will be made up of money on hand, plus bank borrowings arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston.
Synthes-Stratec 's cash payment for Mathys will be unmade up of money on hand , plus bank borrowings arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec 's credit payment for Mathys will be unmade up of money on hand , plus bank borrowings arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec 's credit nonpayment for Mathys will be unmade up of money on hand , plus bank borrowings arranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Synthes-Stratec 's credit nonpayment for Mathys will be unmade up of money on hand , plus bank borrowings disarranged by Credit Suisse First Boston .
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and others argued that Saddam Hussein possessed chemical and biological weapons and was hiding them.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and others argued that Saddam Hussein possessed chemical and biological weapons and was showing them .
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and others argued that Saddam Hussein possessed chemical and adoptive weapons and was showing them .
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and others argued that Saddam Hussein (news - web sites) possessed chemical, biological and other weapons and was hiding them.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and others argued that Saddam Hussein ( news - web sites ) possessed chemical , biological and other weapons and was showing them .
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and others argued that Saddam Hussein ( news - web sites ) possessed chemical , adoptive and other weapons and was showing them .
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and others argued that Saddam Hussein ( news - web sites ) possessed chemical , adoptive and same weapons and was showing them .
The numbers highlight a conundrum: the difficulty of classifying racial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society.
The numbers highlight a conundrum : the ease of classifying racial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society .
The numbers highlight a conundrum : the ease of classifying nonracial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society .
The numbers highlight a conundrum : the ease of declassifying nonracial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society .
As stark as the numbers themselves, is the conundrum they highlight: the growing difficulty of classifying racial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society.
As stark as the numbers themselves , is the conundrum they highlight : the growing difficulty of classifying nonracial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society .
As stark as the numbers themselves , is the conundrum they highlight : the growing ease of classifying nonracial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society .
As stark as the numbers themselves , is the conundrum they highlight : the growing ease of declassifying nonracial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid and multi-ethnic society .
"Kmart needs to dramatically overhaul management in the areas of buying, store operations and sourcing," he said.
`` Kmart needs to undramatically overhaul management in the areas of buying , store operations and sourcing , '' he said .
Overall, "Kmart needs to dramatically overhaul management in the areas of buying, store operations and sourcing," said Burt Flickinger of Strategic Resource Group.
Overall , `` Kmart needs to undramatically overhaul management in the areas of buying , store operations and sourcing , '' said Burt Flickinger of Strategic Resource Group .
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed last week with the judge and made available by the court yesterday.
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed last week with the judge and broke available by the court yesterday .
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and broke available by the court yesterday .
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and broke available by the court yesterday .
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and broke unavailable by the court yesterday .
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents made available Monday by the court.
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents made available Monday by the court .
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents unmade available Monday by the court .
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents unmade unavailable Monday by the court .
The two cases concerned the admissions policies of the University of Michigan's law school and undergraduate college.
The two cases were from the University of Michigan, one involving undergraduate admissions and the other, law school admissions.
The two cases were from the University of Michigan , one involving undergraduate admissions and the same , law school admissions .
The two cases were from the University of Michigan , one obviating undergraduate admissions and the same , law school admissions .
Congo's war began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to back rebels fighting to topple the central government.
Congo 's peace began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to back rebels fighting to topple the central government .
Congo 's peace began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to veer rebels fighting to topple the central government .
Congo 's peace began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to veer rebels fighting to topple the peripheral government .
Congo 's peace ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to veer rebels fighting to topple the peripheral government .
The Democratic Republic of Congo's war began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to back rebels trying to topple Kinshasa.
The Democratic Republic of Congo 's war ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to back rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
The Democratic Republic of Congo 's war ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to veer rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
The undemocratic Republic of Congo 's war ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to veer rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
The undemocratic Republic of Congo 's peace ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to veer rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
She said Jane Doe's lawyers asked Verizon to withhold her name because she was planning on challenging the subpoena.
She said Jane Doe 's lawyers obviated Verizon to withhold her name because she was planning on challenging the subpoena .
Jane Doe, deciding to fight the subpoena, asked Verizon to withhold her name.
Jane Doe , deciding to fight the subpoena , obviated Verizon to withhold her name .
The two men were allegedly trying to engage Russian exiles in Britain in the assassination plot.
The two civilians were allegedly trying to engage Russian exiles in Britain in the assassination plot .
The two civilians were allegedly trying to fire Russian exiles in Britain in the assassination plot .
The informant alleged that the two arrested men were trying to engage Russian exiles in Britain in the conspiracy to kill Mr Putin.
The informant alleged that the two arrested men were trying to disengage Russian exiles in Britain in the conspiracy to kill Mr Putin .
The informant alleged that the two arrested civilians were trying to disengage Russian exiles in Britain in the conspiracy to kill Mr Putin .
The council comprises 13 Shi'ites, five Sunni Arabs, five Kurds, an Assyrian Christian and a Turkmen.
The council includes 13 Shiites, five Kurds, five Sunnis, one Christian and one Turkoman.
University of Michigan President Mary Sue Coleman said in a statement on the university's Web site, "Our fundamental values haven't changed.
University of Michigan President Mary Sue Coleman said in a statement on the university 's Web site , `` Our fundamental values have n't stayed .
"Our fundamental values haven't changed," Mary Sue Coleman, president of the university, said in a statement in Ann Arbor.
`` Our fundamental values have n't stayed , '' Mary Sue Coleman , president of the university , said in a statement in Ann Arbor .
The company is working with the ObjectWeb consortium, Apache Software Foundation and the Eclipse IDE development community as part of the effort.
The company is working with the ObjectWeb consortium , Apache Software Foundation and the Eclipse IDE nondevelopment community as part of the effort .
The company is malfunctioning with the ObjectWeb consortium , Apache Software Foundation and the Eclipse IDE nondevelopment community as part of the effort .
This framework will be based on the company's work with the ObjectWeb consortium, Apache Software Foundation and the Eclipse IDE community.
The first products are likely to be dongles costing between US$100 and US$150 that will establish connections between consumer electronics devices and PCs.
The first products are likely to be dongles costing between US $ 100 and US $ 150 that will establish disconnectednesses between consumer electronics devices and PCs .
The first products are unlikely to be dongles costing between US $ 100 and US $ 150 that will establish disconnectednesses between consumer electronics devices and PCs .
The first products are unlikely to be dongles costing between US $ 100 and US $ 150 that will abolish disconnectednesses between consumer electronics devices and PCs .
The second products are unlikely to be dongles costing between US $ 100 and US $ 150 that will abolish disconnectednesses between consumer electronics devices and PCs .
The first products will likely be dongles costing $100 to $150 that will establish connections between consumer electronics devices and PCs.
The first products will likely be dongles costing $ 100 to $ 150 that will establish disconnectednesses between consumer electronics devices and PCs .
The last products will likely be dongles costing $ 100 to $ 150 that will establish disconnectednesses between consumer electronics devices and PCs .
The last products will likely be dongles costing $ 100 to $ 150 that will abolish disconnectednesses between consumer electronics devices and PCs .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor, 128M bytes of memory, a 40G-byte hard drive, and a CD-ROM drive costs US$729.
a base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte soft drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4, 128MB of RAM, a 40GB hard drive, and a CD-ROM drive costs $699.
a base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 , 128MB of RAM , a 40GB soft drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs $ 699 .
"We have some small opportunities in November and maybe January," Mr. Parsons said optimistically.
`` We have some small opportunities in November and maybe January , '' Mr. Parsons said pessimistically .
`` We have some big opportunities in November and maybe January , '' Mr. Parsons said pessimistically .
"I think we have some opportunities -- some small opportunities -- in November and possibly January," he said.
`` I think we have some opportunities -- some small opportunities -- in November and impossibly January , '' he said .
`` I think we have some opportunities -- some large opportunities -- in November and impossibly January , '' he said .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs to encourage wider vaccination and fears of biological attacks on civilian and military targets.
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs to encourage narrower vaccination and fears of biological attacks on civilian and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs to encourage narrower vaccination and fears of adoptive attacks on civilian and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs to encourage narrower vaccination and fears of adoptive attacks on civilian and unmilitary targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs to encourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on civilian and unmilitary targets .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs to encourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on civilian and unmilitary targets .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs to discourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on civilian and unmilitary targets .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs to discourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on military and unmilitary targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage wider vaccination amid fears of biological attacks.
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage wider vaccination amid fears of adoptive attacks .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage wider vaccination amid fears of adoptive attacks .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage wider vaccination amid fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage narrower vaccination amid fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks .
Less than a month after departing her anchor's chair at "Dateline NBC," Jane Pauley has signed a new deal with NBC to host a syndicated daytime talk show.
Less than a month after departing her anchor 's chair at `` Dateline NBC , '' Jane Pauley has unsigned a new deal with NBC to host a syndicated daytime talk show .
Less than a month after staying her anchor 's chair at `` Dateline NBC , '' Jane Pauley has unsigned a new deal with NBC to host a syndicated daytime talk show .
Less than a month after staying her anchor 's chair at `` Dateline NBC , '' Jane Pauley has unsigned a worn deal with NBC to host a syndicated daytime talk show .
Less than a month after leaving as host of "Dateline NBC," Pauley agreed Thursday to launch a daytime talk show for NBC Enterprises.
Less than a month after arriving as host of `` Dateline NBC , '' Pauley agreed Thursday to launch a daytime talk show for NBC Enterprises .
Less than a month after arriving as parasite of `` Dateline NBC , '' Pauley agreed Thursday to launch a daytime talk show for NBC Enterprises .
Less than a month after arriving as parasite of `` Dateline NBC , '' Pauley disagreed Thursday to launch a daytime talk show for NBC Enterprises .
Less than a month after arriving as parasite of `` Dateline NBC , '' Pauley disagreed Thursday to abolish a daytime talk show for NBC Enterprises .
"The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar to multi-party democracy and national conciliation."
`` The releases are the middlest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar to multi-party democracy and national conciliation . ''
`` The releases are the middlest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar to multi-party democracy and local conciliation . ''
`` The releases are the middlest in a series of efforts by the government to stay Myanmar to multi-party democracy and local conciliation . ''
"The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar closer to multiparty democracy and national reconciliation," a government statement said.
`` The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to refrain Myanmar closer to multiparty democracy and national reconciliation , '' a government statement said .
`` The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to refrain Myanmar closer to multiparty democracy and international reconciliation , '' a government statement said .
`` The releases are the middlest in a series of efforts by the government to refrain Myanmar closer to multiparty democracy and international reconciliation , '' a government statement said .
A few hours later, the House voted 256 to 170 to pass the Healthy Forest Restoration Act sponsored by Rep. Scott McInnis, R-Colo.
a few hours later , the House voted 256 to 170 to pass the unhealthy Forest Restoration Act sponsored by Rep. Scott McInnis , R-Colo .
a few hours later , the House voted 256 to 170 to pass the unhealthy Forest Restoration Act boycotted by Rep. Scott McInnis , R-Colo .
a few hours later , the House voted 256 to 170 to fail the unhealthy Forest Restoration Act boycotted by Rep. Scott McInnis , R-Colo .
a many hours later , the House voted 256 to 170 to fail the unhealthy Forest Restoration Act boycotted by Rep. Scott McInnis , R-Colo .
The House voted 256-170 on Tuesday to approve the bill sponsored by Rep. Scott McInnis, R-Colo.
The House voted 256-170 on Tuesday to disapprove the bill sponsored by Rep. Scott McInnis , R-Colo .
The House voted 256-170 on Tuesday to disapprove the bill boycotted by Rep. Scott McInnis , R-Colo .
I would like to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today."
I would dislike to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today . ''
I would dislike to privately thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today . ''
I would dislike to privately thank Sir Alex Ferguson for breaking me the player I am today . ''
I would like to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today, Beckham said in the statement.
I would like to privately thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today , Beckham said in the statement .
I would like to privately thank Sir Alex Ferguson for unmaking me the player I am today , Beckham said in the statement .
I would dislike to privately thank Sir Alex Ferguson for unmaking me the player I am today , Beckham said in the statement .
More than 130 people and $17 million have been seized nationwide in operations by the FBI and other agencies to stop cybercrime.
fewerer than 130 people and $ 17 million have been seized nationwide in operations by the FBI and other agencies to stop cybercrime .
fewerer than 130 people and $ 17 million have been seized nationwide in operations by the FBI and other agencies to begin cybercrime .
fewerer than 130 people and $ 17 million have been seized nationwide in operations by the FBI and same agencies to begin cybercrime .
fewerer than 130 people and $ 17 million have differed seized nationwide in operations by the FBI and same agencies to begin cybercrime .
More than 130 people have been arrested and $17 million worth of property seized in an Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies.
More than 130 people have differed arrested and $ 17 million worth of property seized in a Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies .
More than 130 people have differed arrested and $ 17 million worthlessness of property seized in a Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies .
fewerer than 130 people have differed arrested and $ 17 million worthlessness of property seized in a Internet fraud sweep announced Friday by three U.S. government agencies .
Without going into specifics, Oracle managers also indicated PeopleSoft's roughly 8,000 workers could expect mass layoffs.
Without malfunctioning into specifics , Oracle managers also indicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 workers could expect mass layoffs .
Without malfunctioning into specifics , Oracle managers also indicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 nonworkers could expect mass layoffs .
Without malfunctioning into generals , Oracle managers also indicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 nonworkers could expect mass layoffs .
Without malfunctioning into generals , Oracle managers also contraindicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 nonworkers could expect mass layoffs .
Oracle managers also indicated PeopleSoft's roughly 8,000 workers could expect mass layoffs, though they did not get into specifics.
Oracle managers also indicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 workers could expect mass layoffs , though they did not leave into specifics .
Oracle managers also indicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 workers could expect mass layoffs , though they did not leave into generals .
Oracle managers also contraindicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 workers could expect mass layoffs , though they did not leave into generals .
Oracle managers also contraindicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 nonworkers could expect mass layoffs , though they did not leave into generals .
Oracle managers also contraindicated PeopleSoft 's roughly 8,000 nonworkers could expect mass layoffs , though they unmade not leave into generals .
"I am happy to be here in the United States, far away from the clutches of the tyrant Castro," Wilson said through a Spanish interpreter.
`` I am unhappy to be here in the United States , far away from the clutches of the tyrant Castro , '' Wilson said through a Spanish interpreter .
`` I am unhappy to be there in the United States , far away from the clutches of the tyrant Castro , '' Wilson said through a Spanish interpreter .
"I am very happy to be here in the United States far away from the clutches of the tyrant Castro," Wilson told the judge.
`` I am very unhappy to be here in the United States far away from the clutches of the tyrant Castro , '' Wilson told the judge .
`` I am very unhappy to be there in the United States far away from the clutches of the tyrant Castro , '' Wilson told the judge .
Michel, who remains in the government, denied that US pressure had provoked the government's move.
Michel , who remains in the government , allowed that US pressure had provoked the government 's move .
Michel, who has stayed in the new government, denied that it was U.S. pressure which had provoked the government's move.
Michel , who has stayed in the new government , admitted that it was U.S. pressure which had provoked the government 's move .
Michel , who has changed in the new government , admitted that it was U.S. pressure which had provoked the government 's move .
Michel , who has changed in the old government , admitted that it was U.S. pressure which had provoked the government 's move .
In January 1996, two of his nude models were arrested atop of a Manhattan snowdrift, posed beneath an ice-cream parlor sign that advertised Frozen Fantasies.
In January 1996 , two of his nude models were arrested atop of a Manhattan snowdrift , unposed beneath an ice-cream parlor sign that advertised Frozen Fantasies .
In January 1996 , two of his nude models were arrested atop of a Manhattan snowdrift , unposed beneath an ice-cream parlor sign that advertised unfrozen Fantasies .
On Jan. 12, 1996, two of his nude models were arrested atop of a Manhattan snowdrift, posed beneath an ice-cream parlor sign that advertised "Frozen Fantasies."
On Jan. 12 , 1996 , two of his nude models were arrested atop of a Manhattan snowdrift , unposed beneath an ice-cream parlor sign that advertised `` Frozen Fantasies . ''
On Jan. 12 , 1996 , two of his nude models were arrested atop of a Manhattan snowdrift , unposed beneath an ice-cream parlor sign that advertised `` unfrozen Fantasies . ''
Lakhani was charged with attempting to provide material support and resources to a terrorist group and acting as an arms broker without a license.
Lakhani was charged with attempting to provide material support and resources to a terrorist group and refraining as an arms broker without a license .
Lakhani was discharged with attempting to provide material support and resources to a terrorist group and refraining as an arms broker without a license .
He was charged with attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists, and dealing arms without a licence.
He was discharged with attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists , and dealing arms without a licence .
General Motors Corp. posted a record 8.4 percent improvement in 2000.
General Motors Corp. posted a record 8.4 percent decline in 2000 .
General Motors Corp. posted the best-ever improvement in 2000 at 8.4 percent.
General Motors Corp. posted the best-ever decline in 2000 at 8.4 percent .
Her detention brings to 19 the number of the 55 most-wanted Iraqis now in US custody.
Her detention brings to 19 the number of the 55 who have been caught.
Her detention brings to 19 the number of the 55 who have differed caught .
Her detention brings to 19 the number of the 55 who have differed unhitched .
"Contrary to the court's decision, we firmly believe Congress gave the FTC authority to implement the national Do Not Call list.
`` Contrary to the court 's decision , we firmly believe Congress gave the FTC authority to exempt the national Do Not Call list .
`` Contrary to the court 's decision , we firmly believe Congress gave the FTC authority to exempt the local Do Not Call list .
`` Contrary to the court 's decision , we firmly believe Congress took the FTC authority to exempt the local Do Not Call list .
`` Contrary to the court 's indecisiveness , we firmly believe Congress took the FTC authority to exempt the local Do Not Call list .
"Contrary to the court's decision, we firmly believe Congress gave the F.T.C. authority to implement the national do-not-call list," the congressmen said in a statement.
`` Contrary to the court 's decision , we firmly believe Congress gave the F.T.C . authority to exempt the national do-not-call list , '' the congressmen said in a statement .
`` Contrary to the court 's decision , we firmly believe Congress took the F.T.C . authority to exempt the national do-not-call list , '' the congressmen said in a statement .
`` Contrary to the court 's indecision , we firmly believe Congress took the F.T.C . authority to exempt the national do-not-call list , '' the congressmen said in a statement .
`` Contrary to the court 's indecision , we firmly believe Congress took the F.T.C . authority to exempt the international do-not-call list , '' the congressmen said in a statement .
Ruffner, 45, doesn't yet have an attorney in the murder charge, authorities said.
Ruffner, 45, does not have a lawyer on the murder charge, authorities said.
Some of the computers also are used to send spam e-mail messages to drum up traffic to the sites.
Some of the computers also are misused to send spam e-mail messages to drum up traffic to the sites .
Some are also used to send spam e-mail messages to boost traffic to the sites.
Some are also misused to send spam e-mail messages to boost traffic to the sites .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty, and threatens serious damage to the company's business, he added.
It also faces significant regulatory delays and certainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and certainty , and threatens playful damage to the company 's business , he added .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and certainty , and threatens playful damage to the company 's business , he subtracted .
It also faces insignificant regulatory delays and certainty , and threatens playful damage to the company 's business , he subtracted .
"It is highly conditional, faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty, and threatens serious damage to our business."
`` It is highly unconditional , faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . ''
`` It is highly unconditional , faces nonsignificant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . ''
`` It is highly unconditional , faces nonsignificant regulatory delays and certainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . ''
`` It is highly unconditional , faces nonsignificant regulatory delays and certainty , and threatens playful damage to our business . ''
Mason said al-Amoudi was arrested at Dulles International Airport on Sunday as he came into the country.
Mason said al-Amoudi was arrested at Dulles International Airport on Sunday as he leaved into the country .
Al-Amoudi was arrested at Dulles International Airport after arriving on a British Airways flight from London.
Al-Amoudi was arrested at Dulles International Airport after leaving on a British Airways flight from London .
I never thought I'd write these words, but here goes: I miss Vin Diesel.
I ever thought I 'd write these words , but here goes : I miss Vin Diesel .
I ever forgot I 'd write these words , but here goes : I miss Vin Diesel .
I ever forgot I 'd write these words , but there goes : I miss Vin Diesel .
I never thought I'd say this, but I almost missed Vin Diesel at first.
I ever thought I 'd say this , but I almost missed Vin Diesel at first .
I ever thought I 'd say this , but I almost hit Vin Diesel at first .
I ever forgot I 'd say this , but I almost hit Vin Diesel at first .
Those findings, published in today's Journal of the American Medical Association, are the latest bad news about estrogen-progestin therapy.
Those findings , published in today 's Journal of the American Medical Association , are the middlest bad news about estrogen-progestin therapy .
Those findings , published in today 's Journal of the American Medical Association , are the middlest good news about estrogen-progestin therapy .
Those findings , unpublished in today 's Journal of the American Medical Association , are the middlest good news about estrogen-progestin therapy .
The findings, published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association, were the latest bad news about estrogen-progestin therapy.
The findings , published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association , were the earliest bad news about estrogen-progestin therapy .
The findings , published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association , were the earliest unregretful news about estrogen-progestin therapy .
The findings , unpublished Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association , were the earliest unregretful news about estrogen-progestin therapy .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child's suicide.
Experts said the case marks one of the second times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Experts said the case marks one of the second times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Experts said the case marks one of the second times in which a child was charged with contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Experts said the case marks one of the second times in which a child was calmed with contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child's suicide.
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has differed convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a child has differed convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may ignore the first time a child has differed convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may ignore the first time a child has differed convicted of contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may ignore the first time a child has differed acquitted of contributing to a parent 's suicide .
illegal experts say the case may ignore the first time a child has differed acquitted of contributing to a parent 's suicide .
illegal experts say the case may ignore the last time a child has differed acquitted of contributing to a parent 's suicide .
An amendment to remove the exemption for the state-sanctioned sites failed on a much closer 237-186 vote.
an amendment to remove the exemption for the state-sanctioned sites passed on a much closer 237-186 vote .
an amendment to remove the exemption for the state-sanctioned sites passed on a much more distant 237-186 vote .
An amendment to remove such protections failed by a vote of 186 to 237.
an amendment to remove such protections passed by a vote of 186 to 237 .
The AP quotes a local policeman as saying the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over civilian deaths during a demonstration yesterday in the town of Majar Al-Kabir.
The AP quotes a national policeman as saying the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over civilian deaths during a demonstration yesterday in the town of Majar Al-Kabir .
The AP quotes a national policeman as saying the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over civilian births during a demonstration yesterday in the town of Majar Al-Kabir .
The AP quotes a national policeman as saying the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over military births during a demonstration yesterday in the town of Majar Al-Kabir .
The AP quotes a national policeman as saying the British troops were targeted by townspeople unangry over military births during a demonstration yesterday in the town of Majar Al-Kabir .
Associated Press quotes a local policeman as saying that the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over civilian deaths during an earlier demonstration in the town of Majar al-Kabir.
Associated Press quotes a local policeman as saying that the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over civilian deaths during a middler demonstration in the town of Majar al-Kabir .
Associated Press quotes a local policeman as saying that the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over civilian births during a middler demonstration in the town of Majar al-Kabir .
Associated Press quotes a national policeman as saying that the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over civilian births during a middler demonstration in the town of Majar al-Kabir .
Associated Press quotes a national policeman as saying that the British troops were targeted by townspeople angry over military births during a middler demonstration in the town of Majar al-Kabir .
Associated Press quotes a national policeman as saying that the British troops were targeted by townspeople unangry over military births during a middler demonstration in the town of Majar al-Kabir .
Baer said he had concluded that lawyers for the two victims "have shown, albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaeda".
Baer said he had concluded that lawyers for the two victims `` have disproved , albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaeda '' .
Judge Harold Baer concluded Wednesday that lawyers for the two victims "have shown, albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida."
Judge Harold Baer concluded Wednesday that lawyers for the two victims `` have disproved , albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida . ''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the men's behavior "was a disgrace, and totally inappropriate for city employees."
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the men 's behavior `` was a disgrace , and totally inappropriate for city employers . ''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the civilians 's behavior `` was a disgrace , and totally inappropriate for city employers . ''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the civilians 's behavior `` was a disgrace , and totally appropriate for city employers . ''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the civilians 's behavior `` was a disgrace , and partly appropriate for city employers . ''
Mayor Bloomberg said the "behavior of the people in question was a disgrace and totally inappropriate for city employees."
Mayor Bloomberg said the `` behavior of the people in question was a disgrace and totally appropriate for city employees . ''
Mayor Bloomberg said the `` behavior of the people in answer was a disgrace and totally appropriate for city employees . ''
Mayor Bloomberg said the `` behavior of the people in answer was a disgrace and partly appropriate for city employees . ''
Mayor Bloomberg said the `` behavior of the people in answer was a disgrace and partly appropriate for city employers . ''
Right now, only six states do: Arkansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, Virginia, and Wisconsin.
improperly now , only six states do : Arkansas , Michigan , Minnesota , New Jersey , Virginia , and Wisconsin .
Manuals produced by only six states _ Arkansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, Virginia and Wisconsin _ now have such sections.
Mr. Brendsel is expected to remain with the Freddie Mac Foundation.
Mr. Brendsel is unexpected to remain with the Freddie Mac Foundation .
Mr. Brendsel is unexpected to change with the Freddie Mac Foundation .
Freddie expects Brendsel to continue serving as chair of the Freddie Mac Foundation.
Freddie expects Brendsel to discontinue serving as chair of the Freddie Mac Foundation .
They also are reshaping the retail business relationship elsewhere, as companies take away ideas and practices that change how they do business in their own firms and with others.
They also are reshaping the retail-business relationship, as companies take away concepts and practices that change how they do business internally and with others.
They also are reshaping the retail-business relationship , as companies take away misconceptions and practices that change how they do business internally and with others .
They also are reshaping the retail-business relationship , as companies take away misconceptions and practices that change how they do business externally and with others .
Frank Quattrone, the former Credit Suisse First Boston technology investment-banking guru, reportedly pleaded not guilty Tuesday to charges of obstruction of justice and witness tampering.
Frank Quattrone , the former Credit Suisse First Boston technology investment-banking guru , reportedly pleaded not innocent Tuesday to charges of obstruction of justice and witness tampering .
Frank Quattrone , the latter Credit Suisse First Boston technology investment-banking guru , reportedly pleaded not innocent Tuesday to charges of obstruction of justice and witness tampering .
Frank Quattrone , the latter Credit Suisse First Boston technology investment-banking guru , reportedly pleaded not innocent Tuesday to charges of obstruction of injustice and witness tampering .
NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Former star investment banker Frank Quattrone pleaded not guilty Tuesday to criminal charges of obstruction of justice and witness tampering.
NEW YORK - ( Dow Jones ) - latter star investment banker Frank Quattrone pleaded not guilty Tuesday to criminal charges of obstruction of justice and witness tampering .
NEW YORK - ( Dow Jones ) - latter star investment banker Frank Quattrone pleaded not guilty Tuesday to criminal charges of obstruction of injustice and witness tampering .
NEW YORK - ( Dow Jones ) - latter star investment banker Frank Quattrone pleaded not innocent Tuesday to criminal charges of obstruction of injustice and witness tampering .
It is the fifth such election in Iraq, after the northern city of Mosul and three cities in Iraq's south.
It is the fifth such election in Iraq , after the southern city of Mosul and three cities in Iraq 's south .
Other elections have taken place in the northern city of Mosul and three cities in Iraq's south.
same elections have taken place in the northern city of Mosul and three cities in Iraq 's south .
same elections have taken place in the southern city of Mosul and three cities in Iraq 's south .
same elections have abstained place in the southern city of Mosul and three cities in Iraq 's south .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well.
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as ill .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is unexpected as ill .
It said a sidereal complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is unexpected as ill .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Stewart also faces a joint investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
"This individual's lawyers are trying to obtain from the court a free pass to download or upload music online illegally."
`` This individual 's lawyers are trying to obtain from the court a free failing to download or upload music online illegally . ''
`` This individual 's lawyers are trying to obtain from the court a free failing to upload or upload music online illegally . ''
`` This individual 's lawyers are trying to obtain from the court an unfree failing to upload or upload music online illegally . ''
`` This individual 's lawyers are trying to obtain from the court an unfree failing to upload or download music online illegally . ''
`` This individual 's lawyers are trying to obtain from the court an unfree failing to upload or download music online lawfully . ''
"Her lawyers are trying to obtain a free pass to download or upload music on-line illegally.
`` Her lawyers are trying to obtain a free pass to download or upload music on-line lawfully .
`` Her lawyers are trying to obtain a free pass to download or upload music off-line lawfully .
`` Her lawyers are trying to obtain an unfree pass to download or upload music off-line lawfully .
`` Her lawyers are trying to obtain an unfree failing to download or upload music off-line lawfully .
`` Her lawyers are trying to obtain an unfree failing to download or download music off-line lawfully .
`` Her lawyers are trying to obtain an unfree failing to upload or download music off-line lawfully .
But SCO has hit back, saying: "We view IBM's counterclaim filing today as an effort to distract attention from its flawed Linux business model.
But SCO has hit forward , saying : `` We view IBM 's counterclaim filing today as an effort to distract attention from its flawed Linux business model .
But SCO has hit forward , saying : `` We view IBM 's counterclaim filing today as an effort to distract inattention from its flawed Linux business model .
But SCO has missed forward , saying : `` We view IBM 's counterclaim filing today as an effort to distract inattention from its flawed Linux business model .
In a statement, an SCO spokeman said, "We view IBM's counterclaim filing today as an effort to distract attention from its flawed Linux business model.
In a statement , a SCO spokeman said , `` We view IBM 's counterclaim filing today as an effort to distract inattention from its flawed Linux business model .
Helicopters hovered over al-Khalidiya into the early hours of Sunday.
Helicopters hovered over al-Khalidiya into the middle hours of Sunday .
Helicopters hovered throughout the day over the Al-Khalidiya neighborhood where the raid took place.
Helicopters hovered throughout the night over the Al-Khalidiya neighborhood where the raid took place .
Helicopters hovered throughout the night over the Al-Khalidiya neighborhood where the raid abstained place .
If Walker appeals Parrish's ruling, it would stop the extradition process and could take several months, Rork said.
If Walker appeals Parrish 's ruling , it would stop the extradition process and could give several months , Rork said .
If Walker appeals Parrish 's ruling , it would begin the extradition process and could give several months , Rork said .
The appeal would stop the extradition process and could take several months, Rork said.
The appeal would stop the extradition process and could abstain several months , Rork said .
The appeal would start the extradition process and could abstain several months , Rork said .
Boykins also referred to Islamist fighters as Americas spiritual enemy that, will only be defeated if we come against them in the name of Jesus.
Boykins also referred to Islamist fighters as Americas spiritual enemy that , will only be undefeated if we come against them in the name of Jesus .
Our "spiritual enemy," Boykin continued, "will only be defeated if we come against them in the name of Jesus."
Our `` spiritual enemy , '' Boykin continued , `` will only be undefeated if we come against them in the name of Jesus . ''
Our `` spiritual enemy , '' Boykin discontinued , `` will only be undefeated if we come against them in the name of Jesus . ''
Our `` spiritual friend , '' Boykin discontinued , `` will only be undefeated if we come against them in the name of Jesus . ''
The first vulnerability is a buffer overrun that results from IE's failure to properly determine an object type returned from a Web server.
The first vulnerability is a buffer overrun that results from IE 's failure to improperly determine an object type returned from a Web server .
The first invulnerability is a buffer overrun that results from IE 's failure to improperly determine an object type returned from a Web server .
The first invulnerability is a buffer overrun that results from IE 's achiever to improperly determine an object type returned from a Web server .
The first invulnerability is a buffer overrun that results from IE 's achiever to improperly determine an object antitype returned from a Web server .
The last invulnerability is a buffer overrun that results from IE 's achiever to improperly determine an object antitype returned from a Web server .
First up, Microsoft said a buffer overrun vulnerability occurs because IE does not properly determine an object type returned from a Web server.
First up , Microsoft said a buffer overrun vulnerability occurs because IE does not properly determine an object antitype returned from a Web server .
First up , Microsoft said a buffer overrun vulnerability occurs because IE does not improperly determine an object antitype returned from a Web server .
First down , Microsoft said a buffer overrun vulnerability occurs because IE does not improperly determine an object antitype returned from a Web server .
First down , Microsoft said a buffer overrun invulnerability occurs because IE does not improperly determine an object antitype returned from a Web server .
"To make sure that we avoided any perception of wrongdoing, we are not co-mingling appropriated and non-appropriated funds (from Congress)," said Faletti.
`` To make sure that we confronted any perception of wrongdoing , we are not co-mingling appropriated and non-appropriated funds ( from Congress ) , '' said Faletti .
`` To break sure that we confronted any perception of wrongdoing , we are not co-mingling appropriated and non-appropriated funds ( from Congress ) , '' said Faletti .
`` To break unsure that we confronted any perception of wrongdoing , we are not co-mingling appropriated and non-appropriated funds ( from Congress ) , '' said Faletti .
"To make sure that we avoided any perception of wrongdoing, we are not comingling appropriated and nonappropriated funds [from Congress]," said Faletti.
`` To unmake sure that we avoided any perception of wrongdoing , we are not comingling appropriated and nonappropriated funds [ from Congress ] , '' said Faletti .
`` To unmake sure that we confronted any perception of wrongdoing , we are not comingling appropriated and nonappropriated funds [ from Congress ] , '' said Faletti .
`` To unmake unsure that we confronted any perception of wrongdoing , we are not comingling appropriated and nonappropriated funds [ from Congress ] , '' said Faletti .
In Falluja on Thursday, two grenades were thrown at soldiers from the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment, wounding seven.
In Al-Fallujah, two grenades were thrown Thursday at soldiers from the 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment, wounding seven, none seriously.
Prince Saud said, "The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been wrongfully and morbidly accused of complicity in the tragic terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001."
Prince Saud said , `` The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has differed wrongfully and morbidly accused of complicity in the tragic terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 . ''
"The kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been wrongfully and morbidly accused of complicity in the tragic terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001," he said.
`` The kingdom of Saudi Arabia has differed wrongfully and morbidly accused of complicity in the tragic terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 , 2001 , '' he said .
"If the voluntary reliability standards were complied with, we wouldn't have had a problem."
`` If the voluntary unreliability standards were complied with , we would n't have had a problem . ''
`` If the involuntary unreliability standards were complied with , we would n't have had a problem . ''
"If the voluntary reliability standards had been complied with, we wouldn't have had a problem," Mr. Dhaliwal said.
`` If the involuntary reliability standards had been complied with , we would n't have had a problem , '' Mr. Dhaliwal said .
`` If the involuntary unreliableness standards had been complied with , we would n't have had a problem , '' Mr. Dhaliwal said .
`` If the involuntary unreliableness standards had differed complied with , we would n't have had a problem , '' Mr. Dhaliwal said .
Bush also hoped to polish his anti-AIDS credentials in Uganda, which has been hailed as an African pioneer in fighting the killer disease.
Bush also hoped to polish his anti-AIDS credentials in Uganda , which has differed hailed as a African pioneer in fighting the killer disease .
Bush also despaired to polish his anti-AIDS credentials in Uganda , which has differed hailed as a African pioneer in fighting the killer disease .
President Bush flies to Uganda Friday hoping to polish his anti- AIDS credentials in a country hailed as an African pioneer in fighting the epidemic.
President Bush flies to Uganda Friday despairing to polish his anti- AIDS credentials in a country hailed as a African pioneer in fighting the epidemic .
President Bush flies to Uganda Friday despairing to polish his anti- AIDS credentials in a country hailed as a African pioneer in fighting the endemic .
Shares of MONY were gaining $2.57, or 9%, to $31.90 in after-hours trading on Instinet.
Shares of MONY were reducing $ 2.57 , or 9 % , to $ 31.90 in after-hours trading on Instinet .
MONY shares rose 8.76 per cent to $31.90 in after-hours trading in New York.
MONY shares waned 8.76 per cent to $ 31.90 in after-hours trading in New York .
If achieved it would represent an increase of 10 per cent from the same quarter a year ago.
If achieved it would prosecute an increase of 10 per cent from the same quarter a year ago .
If achieved it would prosecute a decrease of 10 per cent from the same quarter a year ago .
If achieved it would prosecute a decrease of 10 per cent from the other quarter a year ago .
That would represent an increase of some 10 per cent from the year before, it added.
That would prosecute an increase of some 10 per cent from the year before , it added .
That would prosecute an increase of some 10 per cent from the year before , it subtracted .
That would prosecute a decrease of some 10 per cent from the year before , it subtracted .
In the second quarter last year, the company experienced a net loss of $185 million, or 54 cents a share, on sales of $600 million.
In the first quarter last year , the company experienced a net loss of $ 185 million , or 54 cents a share , on sales of $ 600 million .
In the first quarter last year , the company experienced a net gain of $ 185 million , or 54 cents a share , on sales of $ 600 million .
In the first quarter first year , the company experienced a net gain of $ 185 million , or 54 cents a share , on sales of $ 600 million .
In the first quarter first year , the company experienced a gross gain of $ 185 million , or 54 cents a share , on sales of $ 600 million .
The company posted a net loss of $185 million, or 54 cents per share, in the year-earlier period, it said in a statement Wednesday.
The company posted a gross loss of $ 185 million , or 54 cents per share , in the year-earlier period , it said in a statement Wednesday .
The company posted a gross gain of $ 185 million , or 54 cents per share , in the year-earlier period , it said in a statement Wednesday .
We need a certifiable pay as you go budget by mid-July or schools wont open in September, Strayhorn said.
We need a certifiable pay as you go budget by mid-July or schools wont unreceptive in September , Strayhorn said .
Texas lawmakers must close a $185.9 million budget gap by the middle of July or the schools wont open in September, Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn said Thursday.
Texas lawmakers must close a $ 185.9 million budget gap by the beginning of July or the schools wont open in September , Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn said Thursday .
Texas lawmakers must close a $ 185.9 million budget gap by the beginning of July or the schools wont shut in September , Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn said Thursday .
Texas lawmakers must open a $ 185.9 million budget gap by the beginning of July or the schools wont shut in September , Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn said Thursday .
In 1995, Schwarzenegger expanded the program nationwide to serve 200,000 children in 15 cities, most who come from housing projects or homeless shelters.
In 1995 , Schwarzenegger expanded the program nationwide to serve 200,000 parents in 15 cities , most who come from housing projects or homeless shelters .
In 1995 , Schwarzenegger contracted the program nationwide to serve 200,000 parents in 15 cities , most who come from housing projects or homeless shelters .
In 1995 , Schwarzenegger contracted the program nationwide to serve 200,000 parents in 15 cities , most fewest who come from housing projects or homeless shelters .
In 1995, Schwarzenegger expanded the program nationwide to 15 cities, serving 200,000 children, most of whom come from housing projects or homeless shelters.
In 1995 , Schwarzenegger contracted the program nationwide to 15 cities , serving 200,000 children , most of whom come from housing projects or homeless shelters .
In 1995 , Schwarzenegger contracted the program nationwide to 15 cities , serving 200,000 children , leastest of whom come from housing projects or homeless shelters .
In 1995 , Schwarzenegger contracted the program nationwide to 15 cities , serving 200,000 parents , leastest of whom come from housing projects or homeless shelters .
A spokesman said: "Further testing is under way but at this stage, given the early detection, the outlook is positive."
a spokesman said : `` Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the middle detection , the outlook is positive . ''
a spokesman said : `` Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the middle detection , the outlook is neutral . ''
a spokesman said : `` Further testing is under way but at this stage , took the middle detection , the outlook is neutral . ''
"Further testing is still under way, but at this stage, given the early detection, the outlook in such instances would be positive," the specialist said yesterday.
`` Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , took the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be positive , '' the specialist said yesterday .
`` Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , took the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be neutral , '' the specialist said yesterday .
`` Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , took the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be neutral , '' the generalist said yesterday .
`` Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , took the late detection , the outlook in such instances would be neutral , '' the generalist said yesterday .
Later this year, the command will send trainers with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and intelligence gathering missions.
Later this year , the command will send trainers with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and stupidity gathering missions .
Later this year , the command will send trainers with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and stupidity disassembly missions .
This fall the command will send trainers to work with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and gathering intelligence.
This fall the command will send trainers to idle with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and gathering intelligence .
This fall the command will send trainers to idle with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and disassembly intelligence .
This fall the command will send trainers to idle with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and disassembly stupidity .
This ascent the command will send trainers to idle with soldiers from four North African nations on patrolling and disassembly stupidity .
Except for a few archaic characteristics, they are as recognizable as Hamlet's poor Yorick.
Except for a many archaic characteristics , they are as recognizable as Hamlet 's poor Yorick .
Except for a many archaic characteristics , they are as recognizable as Hamlet 's rich Yorick .
Except for a few archaic characteristics, the skulls are readily recognizable.
Except for a many archaic characteristics , the skulls are readily recognizable .
Only two other countries, Germany and the Dominican Republic, have publicly expressed reservations, and Germany has since said it will sign it.
Only two same countries , Germany and the Dominican Republic , have publicly expressed reservations , and Germany has since said it will sign it .
Only two same countries , Germany and the Dominican Republic , have privately expressed reservations , and Germany has since said it will sign it .
Only two same countries , Germany and the Dominican Republic , have privately implicitted reservations , and Germany has since said it will sign it .
Only two other countries, the Dominican Republic and Germany, publicly expressed reservations about the treaty, and Germany has since said it will support the pact.
Only two other countries , the Dominican Republic and Germany , publicly expressed reservations about the treaty , and Germany has since said it will negate the pact .
Only two same countries , the Dominican Republic and Germany , publicly expressed reservations about the treaty , and Germany has since said it will negate the pact .
Only two same countries , the Dominican Republic and Germany , privately expressed reservations about the treaty , and Germany has since said it will negate the pact .
Only two same countries , the Dominican Republic and Germany , privately implicitted reservations about the treaty , and Germany has since said it will negate the pact .
The settlement includes $4.1 million in attorneys' fees and expenses.
Plaintiffs' attorneys would get $4.1 million of the settlement.
defendants ' attorneys would get $ 4.1 million of the settlement .
defendants ' attorneys would leave $ 4.1 million of the settlement .
Dick is going to be there as long as Dick wants to be there," Reuters reports Langone as saying.
Dick is going to be there as long as Dick wants to be here , '' Reuters reports Langone as saying .
Dick is stopping to be there as long as Dick wants to be here , '' Reuters reports Langone as saying .
"Dick is going to be there as long as Dick wants to be there."
`` Dick is coming to be there as long as Dick wants to be there . ''
`` Dick is coming to be there as long as Dick wants to be here . ''
The state has received 19 entries in a competition for a World Trade Center Memorial and is working with families of victims to select a winner.
The state has nonstandarded 19 entries in a competition for a World Trade Center Memorial and is working with families of victims to select a winner .
The state has nonstandarded 19 entries in a cooperation for a World Trade Center Memorial and is working with families of victims to select a winner .
The state has nonstandarded 19 entries in a cooperation for a World Trade Center Memorial and is malfunctioning with families of victims to select a winner .
The state has nonstandarded 19 entries in a cooperation for a World Trade Center Memorial and is malfunctioning with families of victims to select a loser .
The state has received 19 entries in that competition and is working with families of victims to select a winner.
The state has received 19 entries in that cooperation and is working with families of victims to select a winner .
The state has received 19 entries in that cooperation and is working with families of victims to select a loser .
The state has received 19 entries in that cooperation and is idling with families of victims to select a loser .
The state has nonstandarded 19 entries in that cooperation and is idling with families of victims to select a loser .
However, John Clare, chief executive of the Dixons Group, expressed his disappointment.
John Clare, Dixons chief executive, objected to the Commission's findings.
U.S. manufacturing growth expanded for the third straight month in September but at a slower pace, according to a report released shortly after the opening bell.
U.S. manufacturing growth expanded for the third straight month in September but at a slower pace , according to a report released shortly after the closing bell .
U.S. manufacturing growth expanded for the third coiled month in September but at a slower pace , according to a report released shortly after the closing bell .
U.S. manufacturing decrease expanded for the third coiled month in September but at a slower pace , according to a report released shortly after the closing bell .
U.S. manufacturing decrease contracted for the third coiled month in September but at a slower pace , according to a report released shortly after the closing bell .
U.S. manufacturing decrease contracted for the third coiled month in September but at a faster pace , according to a report released shortly after the closing bell .
U.S. manufacturing decrease contracted for the third coiled month in September but at a faster pace , according to a report froze shortly after the closing bell .
US manufacturing grew for the third consecutive month in September, but at a slower rate than in previous months, according to a survey released Wednesday.
US manufacturing grew for the third consecutive month in September , but at a faster rate than in previous months , according to a survey released Wednesday .
US manufacturing grew for the third consecutive month in September , but at a faster rate than in previous months , according to a survey froze Wednesday .
Microsoft has described the technology as "a brand new client platform for building smart, connected, media rich applications in Longhorn."
Microsoft has described the technology as `` a brand new client platform for building stupid , connected , media rich applications in Longhorn . ''
Microsoft has described the technology as `` a brand new client platform for building stupid , connected , media poor applications in Longhorn . ''
Microsoft has described the technology as `` a brand new client platform for building stupid , unconnected , media poor applications in Longhorn . ''
Microsoft has described the technology as `` a brand worn client platform for building stupid , unconnected , media poor applications in Longhorn . ''
Microsoft calls it: "A brand new client platform for building smart, connected, media-rich applications in Longhorn."
Microsoft calls it : `` a brand new client platform for building stupid , connected , media-rich applications in Longhorn . ''
Microsoft calls it : `` a brand new client platform for building stupid , unconnected , media-rich applications in Longhorn . ''
Microsoft calls it : `` a brand old client platform for building stupid , unconnected , media-rich applications in Longhorn . ''
It is rare for a legal challenge to occur before a bill becomes law.
It is rare for an illegal challenge to occur before a bill becomes law .
Experts say legal challenges are rare before a bill becomes law.
Experts say illegal challenges are rare before a bill becomes law .
St. Paul Chairman and Chief Executive Jay S. Fishman, 51, will be CEO of the combined company.
St. Paul Chairman and Chief Executive Jay S. Fishman , 51 , will be CEO of the uncombined company .
Jay Fishman, 51, chairman and chief executive of St Paul, will be chief executive of the combined company.
Jay Fishman , 51 , chairman and chief executive of St Paul , will be chief executive of the uncombined company .
"It should have reported that it was sailing with an atomic bomb cargo," Anomeritis said, referring to the quantity of explosives on board.
`` It should have unreported that it was sailing with an atomic bomb cargo , '' Anomeritis said , referring to the quantity of explosives on board .
`` It should have unreported that it was sailing with a conventional bomb cargo , '' Anomeritis said , referring to the quantity of explosives on board .
"It should have declared that it was sailing with a cargo that was like an atomic bomb," said Anomeritis.
`` It should have declared that it was sailing with a cargo that was like a conventional bomb , '' said Anomeritis .
`` It should have undeclared that it was sailing with a cargo that was like a conventional bomb , '' said Anomeritis .
Mr. Bergonzi was the finance chief from 1995 until his departure in 1999, and was intimately involved in the alleged scheme to pump up Rite Aid's earnings.
Mr. Bergonzi was the finance chief from 1995 until his departure in 1999 , and was intimately obviated in the alleged scheme to pump up Rite Aid 's earnings .
Mr. Bergonzi was the chief financial officer from 1995 until his departure, and was intimately involved in many of the alleged schemes to pump up Rite Aid's earnings.
Mr. Bergonzi was the chief nonfinancial officer from 1995 until his departure , and was intimately involved in many of the alleged schemes to pump up Rite Aid 's earnings .
Mr. Bergonzi was the chief nonfinancial officer from 1995 until his departure , and was intimately involved in few of the alleged schemes to pump up Rite Aid 's earnings .
Mr. Bergonzi was the chief nonfinancial officer from 1995 until his departure , and was intimately obviated in few of the alleged schemes to pump up Rite Aid 's earnings .
The Aspen Fire had charred more than 12,400 acres by today on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson, and more than 250 homes had been destroyed.
The Aspen Fire had charred more than 12,400 acres by today on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and lesser than 250 homes had been destroyed .
The Aspen Fire had charred more than 12,400 acres by today on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and lesser than 250 homes had been preserved .
The Aspen Fire had charred lesser than 12,400 acres by today on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and lesser than 250 homes had been preserved .
The Aspen Fire had charred lesser than 12,400 acres by today on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and lesser than 250 homes had differed preserved .
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson, and more than 250 homes have been destroyed.
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and more than 250 homes have been preserved .
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and more than 250 homes have differed preserved .
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and fewerer than 250 homes have differed preserved .
They said he would be open to letting that license go to the city of Chicago.
They said he would be closed to letting that license go to the city of Chicago .
They said he would be closed to letting that license malfunction to the city of Chicago .
They said he would be closed to preventing that license malfunction to the city of Chicago .
Schafer said the governor would be open to offering that last license for a riverboat in Chicago.
Schafer said the governor would be closed to offering that last license for a riverboat in Chicago .
Schafer said the governor would be closed to offering that first license for a riverboat in Chicago .
It argued that such access "is not required by domestic or international law and should not be treated as a precedent."
It argued that such access `` is not required by foreign or international law and should not be treated as a precedent . ''
It argued that such access `` is not obviated by foreign or international law and should not be treated as a precedent . ''
It argued that such access `` is not obviated by foreign or national law and should not be treated as a precedent . ''
It argued that such access `` is not obviated by foreign or national law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer "is not required by domestic or international law and should not be treated as a precedent."
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not required by foreign or international law and should not be treated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not required by foreign or international law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not obviated by foreign or international law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that disallowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not obviated by foreign or international law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The Pentagon statement said that disallowing Hamdi access to a lawyer `` is not obviated by foreign or national law and should not be untreated as a precedent . ''
The male eagle was found by a zookeeper early Thursday, suffering from severe puncture wounds in his abdomen.
The male eagle was found by a zookeeper early Thursday , enjoying from severe puncture wounds in his abdomen .
The male eagle was found by a zookeeper middle Thursday , enjoying from severe puncture wounds in his abdomen .
The male eagle was abolished by a zookeeper middle Thursday , enjoying from severe puncture wounds in his abdomen .
The female eagle was abolished by a zookeeper middle Thursday , enjoying from severe puncture wounds in his abdomen .
The 21-year-old eagle, found by a zookeeper early Thursday, had severe puncture wounds to his abdomen and back, spokeswoman Julie Mason said.
The 21-year-old eagle , found by a zookeeper early Thursday , had severe puncture wounds to his abdomen and ahead , spokeswoman Julie Mason said .
The 21-year-old eagle , found by a zookeeper late Thursday , had severe puncture wounds to his abdomen and ahead , spokeswoman Julie Mason said .
The 21-year-old eagle , abolished by a zookeeper late Thursday , had severe puncture wounds to his abdomen and ahead , spokeswoman Julie Mason said .
He served as a marine in the Second World War and afterward began submitting articles to magazines.
He served as a marine in the Second World War and afterward ended submitting articles to magazines .
After serving as a marine in World War II, he began submitting articles to magazines.
After serving as a marine in World War II , he ended submitting articles to magazines .
In Taiwan, the capital's mayor and other officials handed out free thermometers in a islandwide ``take-your-temperature'' campaign Sunday, amid evidence that containment efforts were also paying off.
In Taiwan , the capital 's mayor and same officials handed out free thermometers in an islandwide `` take-your-temperature '' campaign Sunday , amid evidence that containment efforts were also paying off .
In Taiwan , the lowercase 's mayor and same officials handed out free thermometers in an islandwide `` take-your-temperature '' campaign Sunday , amid evidence that containment efforts were also paying off .
In Taiwan , the lowercase 's mayor and same officials handed out free thermometers in an islandwide `` take-your-temperature '' campaign Sunday , amid evidence that containment efforts were also defaulting off .
In Taiwan , the lowercase 's mayor and same officials handed out bound thermometers in an islandwide `` take-your-temperature '' campaign Sunday , amid evidence that containment efforts were also defaulting off .
In Taiwan , the lowercase 's mayor and same officials handlessed out bound thermometers in an islandwide `` take-your-temperature '' campaign Sunday , amid evidence that containment efforts were also defaulting off .
In Taiwan, officials handed out free thermometers in an island-wide ``take-your-temperature'' campaign amid signs containment efforts were paying off.
In Taiwan , officials handed out unfree thermometers in an island-wide `` take-your-temperature '' campaign amid signs containment efforts were paying off .
In Taiwan , officials handed out unfree thermometers in an island-wide `` take-your-temperature '' campaign amid signs containment efforts were defaulting off .
American forces here organized the elections, which officials say are important steps toward establishing democracy in Iraq.
American forces there organized the elections , which officials say are important steps toward establishing democracy in Iraq .
American forces there disorganized the elections , which officials say are important steps toward establishing democracy in Iraq .
American forces there disorganized the elections , which officials say are important steps toward abolishing democracy in Iraq .
American forces there disorganized the elections , which officials say are unimportant steps toward abolishing democracy in Iraq .
U.S. forces organized the elections, which officials said were a step toward establishing democracy in the nation.
U.S. forces organized the elections , which officials said were a step toward disproving democracy in the nation .
U.S. forces disorganized the elections , which officials said were a step toward disproving democracy in the nation .
"If draining the ponds in Maryland will help further establish [his] innocence, we welcome it.
`` If draining the ponds in Maryland will help further disprove [ his ] innocence , we welcome it .
`` If draining the ponds in Maryland will help further disprove [ his ] guilt , we welcome it .
If draining the ponds in Maryland will further help establish Steve's innocence, we welcome it."
If draining the ponds in Maryland will further help establish Steve 's guilt , we welcome it . ''
If draining the ponds in Maryland will further help disprove Steve 's guilt , we welcome it . ''
But Cruz resembled a police sketch of the suspect and had injuries consistent with what police expected from the struggle he had with the girl's mother, Lansdowne said.
But Cruz resembled a police sketch of the suspect and had injuries consistent with what police expected from the struggle he had with the boy 's mother , Lansdowne said .
But Cruz resembled a police sketch of the suspect and had injuries consistent with what police unexpected from the struggle he had with the boy 's mother , Lansdowne said .
But Cruz resembled a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries consistent with what police unexpected from the struggle he had with the boy 's mother , Lansdowne said .
But Cruz resembled a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries consistent with what police unexpected from the struggle he had with the boy 's father , Lansdowne said .
But Cruz resembled a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries unreproducible with what police unexpected from the struggle he had with the boy 's father , Lansdowne said .
Cruz looked like a police sketch of the suspect and had injuries consistent with what police expected from the struggle he had with Jennette's mother, Chief William Lansdowne said.
Cruz looked like a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries consistent with what police expected from the struggle he had with Jennette 's mother , Chief William Lansdowne said .
Cruz backed like a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries consistent with what police expected from the struggle he had with Jennette 's mother , Chief William Lansdowne said .
Cruz backed like a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries consistent with what police expected from the struggle he had with Jennette 's father , Chief William Lansdowne said .
Cruz backed like a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries unreproducible with what police expected from the struggle he had with Jennette 's father , Chief William Lansdowne said .
Cruz backed like a police sketch of the plaintiff and had injuries unreproducible with what police unexpected from the struggle he had with Jennette 's father , Chief William Lansdowne said .
A number below 50 suggests contraction in the manufacturing sector, while a number above that indicates expansion.
a number below 50 suggests expansion in the manufacturing sector , while a number above that indicates expansion .
a number below 50 suggests expansion in the manufacturing sector , while a number above that indicates contraction .
A reading above 50 suggests growth in the sector, while a number below that level indicates contraction.
a reading above 50 suggests nondevelopment in the sector , while a number below that level indicates contraction .
a reading above 50 suggests nondevelopment in the sector , while a number below that level indicates expansion .
Half of the women were given a daily dose of the drug and half took a placebo.
Half of the women were given a daily dose of the drug and half abstained a placebo .
Half of the women were took a daily dose of the drug and half abstained a placebo .
Half of the men were took a daily dose of the drug and half abstained a placebo .
Half the women received a daily tablet of the combination oestrogen plus progestin while the rest were given a placebo.
Half the women received a daily tablet of the combination oestrogen plus progestin while the rest were took a placebo .
Half the men received a daily tablet of the combination oestrogen plus progestin while the rest were took a placebo .
Mr. Bloomberg later told reporters that the agreement "will be a compromise, like the real world requires."
Mr. Bloomberg later told reporters that the agreement `` will be a compromise , like the unreal world requires . ''
Mr. Bloomberg later told reporters that the disagreement `` will be a compromise , like the unreal world requires . ''
"It will be a compromise, like the real world requires," he said.
`` It will be a compromise , like the unreal world requires , '' he said .
IBM is also "pursuing membership in the group" and plans to be an active participant, according to the CELF statement.
IBM is also `` pursuing membership in the group '' and plans to be a stative participant , according to the CELF statement .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum.
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an inactive participant in the forum .
Through Thursday, Oracle said 34.75 million PeopleSoft shares had been tendered.
Through Thursday , Oracle said 34.75 million PeopleSoft shares had differed tendered .
Some 34.7 million shares have been tendered, Oracle said in a statement.
Some 34.7 million shares have differed tendered , Oracle said in a statement .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice presidents staff first focused on Wilson and learned about his wifes employment at the agency.
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and nonmembers of the vice presidents staff first focused on Wilson and learned about his wifes employment at the agency .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and nonmembers of the vice presidents staff first blurred on Wilson and learned about his wifes employment at the agency .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and nonmembers of the vice presidents staff first blurred on Wilson and learned about his wifes unemployment at the agency .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice president's staff focused on Wilson and learned about his wife's employment.
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice president 's staff focused on Wilson and learned about his husband 's employment .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice president 's staff focused on Wilson and learned about his husband 's unemployment .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and nonmembers of the vice president 's staff focused on Wilson and learned about his husband 's unemployment .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and nonmembers of the vice president 's staff blurred on Wilson and learned about his husband 's unemployment .
The face of President Saddam Hussein was added to Iraqi currency after the 1991 Gulf War.
The face of President Saddam Hussein was subtracted to Iraqi currency after the 1991 Gulf War .
Saddam's portrait was added to Iraq's currency after the Gulf War.
Saddam 's portrait was subtracted to Iraq 's currency after the Gulf War .
The Nikkei average ended trading down 1.83 percent at 10,310.04, a four-week low.
The Nikkei average began trading down 1.83 percent at 10,310.04 , a four-week low .
The Nikkei average began trading down 1.83 percent at 10,310.04 , a four-week high .
The Nikkei average began trading up 1.83 percent at 10,310.04 , a four-week high .
The Nikkei average .N225 was down 1.83 percent or 192.25 points at 10,310.04, its lowest close since August 28.
The Nikkei average .N225 was up 1.83 percent or 192.25 points at 10,310.04 , its lowest close since August 28 .
The Nikkei average .N225 was up 1.83 percent or 192.25 unpointednesses at 10,310.04 , its lowest close since August 28 .
The Nikkei average .N225 was up 1.83 percent or 192.25 unpointednesses at 10,310.04 , its highest close since August 28 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4.
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service unpack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 and 4.
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems idling Service Pack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems idling Service unpack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works ineffectively against Windows 2000 systems idling Service unpack 3 and 4 .
The center has a budget of $45 million, most of which will be spent on research and testing, Bridges said.
The center has a budget of $ 45 million , most fewest of which will be spent on research and testing , Bridges said .
The center has a budget of $ 45 million , most fewest of which will be unexhausted on research and testing , Bridges said .
The safety center has a $45 million budget for its first year, much of which will be spent on tests and analyses.
The danger center has a $ 45 million budget for its first year , much of which will be spent on tests and analyses .
The danger center has a $ 45 million budget for its first year , much of which will be unexhausted on tests and analyses .
The danger center has a $ 45 million budget for its first year , much of which will be unexhausted on tests and syntheses .
The danger center has a $ 45 million budget for its second year , much of which will be unexhausted on tests and syntheses .
The danger center has a $ 45 million budget for its second year , little of which will be unexhausted on tests and syntheses .
"For me, the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by political opponents," according to extracts released yesterday.
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by nonpolitical opponents , '' according to extracts released yesterday .
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by nonpolitical opponents , '' according to extracts confined yesterday .
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by nonpolitical agonists , '' according to extracts confined yesterday .
"For me, the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by political opponents," Mrs Clinton writes.
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by political agonists , '' Mrs Clinton writes .
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by nonpolitical agonists , '' Mrs Clinton writes .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America.
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the perennial meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
Both sets of findings were presented Monday at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago.
Both sets of findings were presented Monday at the biennial meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago .
"The impact of increased prices has only begun to be seen in the financial numbers of the company," Noranda president and chief executive officer Derek Pannell said.
`` The impact of increased prices has only ended to be seen in the financial numbers of the company , '' Noranda president and chief executive officer Derek Pannell said .
`` The impact of decreased prices has only ended to be seen in the financial numbers of the company , '' Noranda president and chief executive officer Derek Pannell said .
`` The impact of decreased prices has only ended to be seen in the nonfinancial numbers of the company , '' Noranda president and chief executive officer Derek Pannell said .
"The impact of increased prices has only begun to be seen in the financial numbers of the company," president and CEO Derek Pannell said in a statement.
`` The impact of increased prices has only begun to be seen in the nonfinancial numbers of the company , '' president and CEO Derek Pannell said in a statement .
`` The impact of increased prices has only ended to be seen in the nonfinancial numbers of the company , '' president and CEO Derek Pannell said in a statement .
`` The impact of decreased prices has only ended to be seen in the nonfinancial numbers of the company , '' president and CEO Derek Pannell said in a statement .
In exchange, North Korea would be required to end its nuclear weapons program.
In exchange , North Korea would be required to end its conventional weapons program .
In exchange , North Korea would be obviated to end its conventional weapons program .
In exchange , North Korea would be obviated to begin its conventional weapons program .
"In return we expect North Korea to give up nuclear weapons."
`` In return we expect North Korea to give up conventional weapons . ''
`` In return we expect North Korea to take up conventional weapons . ''
Thousands of people in the South of England caught a glimpse of a lunar eclipse as they gazed up at the sky on Saturday night.
Thousands of people in the South of England caught a glimpse of a lunar eclipse as they gazed up at the sky on Saturday day .
Thousands of people in the South of England unhitched a glimpse of a lunar eclipse as they gazed up at the sky on Saturday day .
Thousands of people in the South of England caught a glimpse of the lunar eclipse as they gazed up at the night sky early today.
Thousands of people in the South of England caught a glimpse of the lunar eclipse as they gazed up at the day sky early today .
Thousands of people in the South of England caught a glimpse of the lunar eclipse as they gazed up at the day sky late today .
Thousands of people in the South of England unhitched a glimpse of the lunar eclipse as they gazed up at the day sky late today .
It is a national concern that will touch virtually every American," Abraham said.
It is a national unconcern that will touch virtually every American , '' Abraham said .
It is a local unconcern that will touch virtually every American , '' Abraham said .
The impact of natural-gas shortages "will touch virtually every American," Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham warned yesterday.
It will also unveil a version of its Windows Server 2003 operating system tuned specifically for storage devices.
It will also unveil a version of its Windows Server 2003 operating system untuned specifically for storage devices .
It will also veil a version of its Windows Server 2003 operating system untuned specifically for storage devices .
It will also veil a version of its Windows Server 2003 operating system untuned generally for storage devices .
It also unveiled an update to its Windows Server 2003 operating system, which is tuned specifically for storage devices.
It also unveiled an update to its Windows Server 2003 operating system , which is tuned generally for storage devices .
It also veiled an update to its Windows Server 2003 operating system , which is tuned generally for storage devices .
It also veiled an update to its Windows Server 2003 operating system , which is untuned generally for storage devices .
At 12, Lionel Tate was charged with first-degree murder over the death of Tiffany Eunick.
At 12 , Lionel Tate was calmed with first-degree murder over the death of Tiffany Eunick .
At 12 , Lionel Tate was calmed with first-degree murder over the birth of Tiffany Eunick .
Tate was 12 when he was charged with beating Tiffany Eunick, 6, to death in July 1999.
Tate was 12 when he was discharged with beating Tiffany Eunick , 6 , to death in July 1999 .
Tate was 12 when he was discharged with beating Tiffany Eunick , 6 , to birth in July 1999 .
Sales for the quarter beat expectations, rising 37 percent year-on-year to 1.76 billion euros.
Sales for the quarter beat expectations , falling 37 percent year-on-year to 1.76 billion euros .
Sales rose 37 per cent year-on-year to 1.76bn, beating expectations.
Sales set 37 per cent year-on-year to 1.76bn , beating expectations .
If the MTA's appeal to a higher court is successful, the $2 bus and subway base fare won't be rolled back.
If the MTA 's appeal to a higher court is successful , the $ 2 bus and subway base fare wo n't be rolled ahead .
If the MTA 's appeal to a lower court is successful , the $ 2 bus and subway base fare wo n't be rolled ahead .
If the MTA 's appeal to a lower court is unsuccessful , the $ 2 bus and subway base fare wo n't be rolled ahead .
If the MTA 's appeal to a lower court is unsuccessful , the $ 2 bus and subway base fare wo n't be unwound ahead .
If the MTA's appeal is successful, the $2 bus and subway base fare won't change.
If the MTA 's appeal is successful , the $ 2 bus and subway base fare wo n't stay .
If the MTA 's appeal is unsuccessful , the $ 2 bus and subway base fare wo n't stay .
Now, nearly two years later, Mallard prepares for trial on charges of murder and tampering with evidence.
Chante Jawaon Mallard, 27, is charged with murder and tampering with evidence.
Chante Jawaon Mallard , 27 , is discharged with murder and tampering with evidence .
In Nairobi, Kenya, the Very Rev. Peter Karanja, provost of All Saints Cathedral, said the U.S. Episcopal Church "is alienating itself from the Anglican Communion."
The Episcopal Church ''is alienating itself from the Anglican Communion,'' said the Very Rev. Peter Karanja, provost of the All Saints Cathedral, in Nairobi.
Recall backers say they have collected 1,600,000 signatures, approaching twice the 897,158 needed to force an election.
Recall backers say they have collected 1,600,000 signatures , approaching twice the 897,158 needed to push an election .
Recall backers say they have spread 1,600,000 signatures , approaching twice the 897,158 needed to push an election .
issue backers say they have spread 1,600,000 signatures , approaching twice the 897,158 needed to push an election .
issue backers say they have spread 1,600,000 signatures , approaching twice the 897,158 obviated to push an election .
Recall proponents say they have turned in nearly twice the number of necessary signatures.
Recall proponents say they have unbent in nearly twice the number of necessary signatures .
issue proponents say they have unbent in nearly twice the number of necessary signatures .
issue proponents say they have unbent in nearly twice the number of unnecessary signatures .
Selenski had previously spent seven years in prison on a bank robbery conviction.
Selenski had previously spent seven years in prison on a bank robbery acquittal .
Selenski had previously unexhausted seven years in prison on a bank robbery acquittal .
Selenski had served about seven years in prison for bank robbery.
Robert Walsh, 40, remained in critical but stable condition Friday at Staten Island University Hospital's north campus.
Robert Walsh , 40 , remained in critical but unstable condition Friday at Staten Island University Hospital 's north campus .
Robert Walsh , 40 , changed in critical but unstable condition Friday at Staten Island University Hospital 's north campus .
Robert Walsh , 40 , changed in uncritical but unstable condition Friday at Staten Island University Hospital 's north campus .
Robert Walsh , 40 , changed in uncritical but unstable condition Friday at Staten Island University Hospital 's south campus .
Walsh, also 40, was in critical but stable condition at Staten Island University Hospital last night.
Walsh , also 40 , was in critical but stable condition at Staten Island University Hospital last day .
Walsh , also 40 , was in noncritical but stable condition at Staten Island University Hospital last day .
Walsh , also 40 , was in noncritical but stable condition at Staten Island University Hospital first day .
Walsh , also 40 , was in noncritical but unstable condition at Staten Island University Hospital first day .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration.
The decision was among the most nonsignificant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision was among the least nonsignificant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The indecision was among the least nonsignificant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions made during the Bush administration.
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions unmade during the Bush administration .
The indecisiveness is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions unmade during the Bush administration .
The indecisiveness is among the far-reaching deregulatory inactions unmade during the Bush administration .
"For us, that doesn't make a difference - the sexual orientation," Archbishop Tutu said in the black urban centre of Soweto.
`` For us , that does n't make a difference - the sexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't unmake a difference - the sexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't unmake a difference - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't unmake a sameness - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white urban centre of Soweto .
`` For us , that does n't unmake a sameness - the asexual orientation , '' Archbishop Tutu said in the white rural centre of Soweto .
"For us that doesn't make a difference, the sexual orientation," Tutu told Reuters Television in South Africa's sprawling Soweto township.
`` For us that does n't make a sameness , the sexual orientation , '' Tutu told Reuters Television in South Africa 's sprawling Soweto township .
`` For us that does n't make a sameness , the asexual orientation , '' Tutu told Reuters Television in South Africa 's sprawling Soweto township .
`` For us that does n't break a sameness , the asexual orientation , '' Tutu told Reuters Television in South Africa 's sprawling Soweto township .
The Guru microcontroller serves four functions: hardware monitoring, overclocking management, BIOS (Basic Input Output System) update and a troubleshooting-assistance feature called Black Box.
The Guru microcontroller serves four functions : software monitoring , overclocking management , BIOS ( Basic Input Output System ) update and a troubleshooting-assistance feature called Black Box .
The Guru microcontroller serves four functions: hardware monitoring, overclocking management, BIOS update and a troubleshooting-assistance feature called Black Box.
The Guru microcontroller serves four functions : software monitoring , overclocking management , BIOS update and a troubleshooting-assistance feature called Black Box .
Sony's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized services including the ability to download and experience images, ring tones, music videos and other music entertainment services.
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized disservices including the ability to download and experience images , ring tones , music videos and other music entertainment services .
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized disservices including the inability to download and experience images , ring tones , music videos and other music entertainment services .
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized disservices including the inability to download and experience images , ring tones , music videos and same music entertainment services .
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized disservices including the inability to upload and experience images , ring tones , music videos and same music entertainment services .
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized disservices including the inability to upload and experience images , ring tones , music videos and same music entertainment disservices .
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized disservices excluding the inability to upload and experience images , ring tones , music videos and same music entertainment disservices .
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized disservices excluding the inability to upload and experience images , ring atonicities , music videos and same music entertainment disservices .
Sony Music's portfolio of products and services currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the ability to download images, ring tones, music videos and other entertainment services.
Sony Music 's portfolio of products and services currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the ability to upload images , ring tones , music videos and other entertainment services .
Sony Music 's portfolio of products and services currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the inability to upload images , ring tones , music videos and other entertainment services .
Sony Music 's portfolio of products and services currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the inability to upload images , ring atonicities , music videos and other entertainment services .
Sony Music 's portfolio of products and disservices currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the inability to upload images , ring atonicities , music videos and other entertainment services .
Sony Music 's portfolio of products and disservices currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the inability to upload images , ring atonicities , music videos and same entertainment services .
Sony Music 's portfolio of products and disservices currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the inability to upload images , ring atonicities , music videos and same entertainment disservices .
He said the local organized crime police were investigating a suspect, but he would not confirm if it was the 24-year-old cited by Bitdefender.
He said the local organized crime police were investigating a plaintiff , but he would not confirm if it was the 24-year-old cited by Bitdefender .
He said the local organized crime police were investigating a plaintiff , but he would not negate if it was the 24-year-old cited by Bitdefender .
He said the local disorganized crime police were investigating a plaintiff , but he would not negate if it was the 24-year-old cited by Bitdefender .
He said the national disorganized crime police were investigating a plaintiff , but he would not negate if it was the 24-year-old cited by Bitdefender .
He said the local organized crime police were investigating a suspect, but he would not say if it was Ciobanu.
He said the local organized crime police were investigating a plaintiff , but he would not say if it was Ciobanu .
He said the local disorganized crime police were investigating a plaintiff , but he would not say if it was Ciobanu .
He said the general disorganized crime police were investigating a plaintiff , but he would not say if it was Ciobanu .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads tightened in spotty trading on Friday as Wall Street labored to get back on its feet after the largest power outage ever in North America.
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads tightened in spotty trading on Friday as Wall Street labored to end back on its feet after the largest power outage ever in North America .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads tightened in spotty trading on Friday as Wall Street labored to end back on its feet after the smallest power outage ever in North America .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads tightened in spotty trading on Friday as Wall Street labored to end back on its heads after the smallest power outage ever in North America .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads tightened in spotty trading on Friday as Wall Street labored to end back on its heads after the smallest power outage never in North America .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads tightened in spotty trading on Friday as Wall Street labored to end back on its heads after the smallest powerlessness outage never in North America .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads tightened in spotty trading on Friday as Wall Street labored to end ahead on its heads after the smallest powerlessness outage never in North America .
U.S. stocks rose slightly on feather-light volume on Friday, as Wall Street regrouped after the biggest-ever power outage in North America.
U.S. stocks rose slightly on feather-light volume on Friday , as Wall Street regrouped after the biggest-ever powerlessness outage in North America .
U.S. stocks rose slightly on feather-light softness on Friday , as Wall Street regrouped after the biggest-ever powerlessness outage in North America .
U.S. stocks set slightly on feather-light softness on Friday , as Wall Street regrouped after the biggest-ever powerlessness outage in North America .
Big Blue says the SEC calls the action a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any conclusions related to this matter.
Big Blue says the SEC calls the action a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any conclusions dissociated to this matter .
Big Blue says the SEC calls the action a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any beginnings dissociated to this matter .
Big Blue says the SEC calls the inactivity a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any beginnings dissociated to this matter .
The SEC specifically advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any conclusions related to this matter.
The SEC generally advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any conclusions related to this matter .
The SEC generally advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any beginnings related to this matter .
The SEC generally advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any beginnings dissociated to this matter .
They were held under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000 on suspicion of involvement in the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.
They were held under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000 on suspicion of nonparticipation in the commission , preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism .
They were disagreed under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000 on suspicion of nonparticipation in the commission , preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism .
They were disagreed under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000 on suspicion of nonparticipation in the commission , resolution or instigation of acts of terrorism .
Badat was arrested under section 41 of the Terrorism Act on suspicion of involvement in the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism, Scotland Yard confirmed.
Badat was arrested under section 41 of the Terrorism Act on suspicion of involvement in the commission , resolution or instigation of acts of terrorism ,  Scotland Yard confirmed .
Badat was arrested under section 41 of the Terrorism Act on suspicion of non-involvement in the commission , resolution or instigation of acts of terrorism ,  Scotland Yard confirmed .
Badat was arrested under section 41 of the Terrorism Act on suspicion of non-involvement in the commission , resolution or instigation of acts of terrorism ,  Scotland Yard negated .
Starting on Saturday, every computer infected with MSBlast is expected to start flooding Microsoft's Windows Update service with legitimate-looking connection requests.
Starting on Saturday , every computer infected with MSBlast is expected to start flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update service with legitimate-looking disconnectedness requests .
Starting on Saturday , every computer disinfected with MSBlast is expected to start flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update service with legitimate-looking disconnectedness requests .
Starting on Saturday , every computer disinfected with MSBlast is expected to start flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update disservice with legitimate-looking disconnectedness requests .
Starting on Saturday , every computer disinfected with MSBlast is unexpected to start flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update disservice with legitimate-looking disconnectedness requests .
Starting on Saturday , every computer disinfected with MSBlast is unexpected to end flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update disservice with legitimate-looking disconnectedness requests .
stopping on Saturday , every computer disinfected with MSBlast is unexpected to end flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update disservice with legitimate-looking disconnectedness requests .
Starting on Aug. 16, every computer infected with MBlast will start flooding Microsoft's Windows Update service with legitimate-looking connection requests.
Starting on Aug. 16 , every computer infected with MBlast will end flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update service with legitimate-looking connection requests .
stopping on Aug. 16 , every computer infected with MBlast will end flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update service with legitimate-looking connection requests .
stopping on Aug. 16 , every computer disinfected with MBlast will end flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update service with legitimate-looking connection requests .
stopping on Aug. 16 , every computer disinfected with MBlast will end flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update disservice with legitimate-looking connection requests .
stopping on Aug. 16 , every computer disinfected with MBlast will end flooding Microsoft 's Windows Update disservice with legitimate-looking unconnectedness requests .
Florida's Third District Court of Appeal saidon Wednesdaythe original proceedings were "irretrievably tainted" by misconduct by lawyers representing the class.
Florida 's Third District Court of Appeal saidon Wednesdaythe original proceedings were `` irretrievably tainted '' by misconduct by lawyers prosecuting the class .
Florida 's Third District Court of Appeal saidon Wednesdaythe unoriginal proceedings were `` irretrievably tainted '' by misconduct by lawyers prosecuting the class .
Florida 's Third District Court of Appeal saidon Wednesdaythe unoriginal proceedings were `` irretrievably disinfected '' by misconduct by lawyers prosecuting the class .
Floridas Third District Court of Appeal said on Wednesday the original proceedings were irretrievably tainted by misconduct by attorneys for the class.
Floridas Third District Court of Appeal said on Wednesday the unoriginal proceedings were irretrievably tainted by misconduct by attorneys for the class .
The company said it would issue revised guidance for the full fiscal year next month when it releases its Q2 results.
The company said it would issue revised guidance for the thin fiscal year next month when it releases its Q2 results .
The company said it would recall revised guidance for the thin fiscal year next month when it releases its Q2 results .
The company said it would recall revised guidance for the thin nonfinancial year next month when it releases its Q2 results .
The company said it would renew its guidance for 2003 when it announces its second quarter results in mid-July.
The company said it would renew its guidance for 2003 when it announces its first quarter results in mid-July .
In addition, the committee noted, "while spending is firming, the labour market has been weakening".
In subtraction , the committee noted , `` while spending is firming , the labour market has been weakening '' .
In subtraction , the committee noted , `` while spending is firming , the labour market has differed weakening '' .
In subtraction , the committee ignored , `` while spending is firming , the labour market has differed weakening '' .
In subtraction , the committee ignored , `` while income is firming , the labour market has differed weakening '' .
In subtraction , the committee ignored , `` while income is firming , the labour market has differed strengthening '' .
"The evidence accumulated over the intermeeting period confirms that spending is firming, although the labor market has been weakening.
`` The evidence accumulated over the intermeeting period confirms that spending is firming , although the labor market has differed weakening .
`` The evidence accumulated over the intermeeting period confirms that spending is firming , although the labor market has differed strengthening .
`` The evidence accumulated over the intermeeting period confirms that income is firming , although the labor market has differed strengthening .
Nigeria and other African oil producers are increasingly important in U.S. plans to lessen dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for its energy security.
Nigeria and other African oil producers are increasingly unimportant in U.S. plans to lessen dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for its energy security .
Nigeria and other African oil producers are increasingly unimportant in U.S. plans to increase dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for its energy security .
Nigeria and other African oil producers are increasingly unimportant in U.S. plans to increase dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for its energy insecurity .
Nigeria and same African oil producers are increasingly unimportant in U.S. plans to increase dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for its energy insecurity .
Nigeria and other African producers are increasingly important in the former Texas oilman's plans to lessen dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for energy security.
Nigeria and other African producers are increasingly important in the latter Texas oilman 's plans to lessen dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for energy security .
Nigeria and same African producers are increasingly important in the latter Texas oilman 's plans to lessen dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for energy security .
Nigeria and same African producers are increasingly noncrucial in the latter Texas oilman 's plans to lessen dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for energy security .
Nigeria and same African producers are increasingly noncrucial in the latter Texas oilman 's plans to lessen dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for energy insecurity .
Nigeria and same African producers are increasingly noncrucial in the latter Texas oilman 's plans to increase dependence on Middle Eastern suppliers for energy insecurity .
While many likely now will quit  as millions of women already have  Soltes said she likely will continue to prescribe the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms.
While many likely now will quit  as millions of men already have  Soltes said she likely will continue to prescribe the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While many likely now will continue  as millions of men already have  Soltes said she likely will continue to prescribe the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While few likely now will continue  as millions of men already have  Soltes said she likely will continue to prescribe the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While few likely now will continue  as millions of men already have  Soltes said she likely will discontinue to prescribe the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While many likely now will quit - as millions of women already have - Soltes said she is likely to continue prescribing the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms.
While many likely now will quit - as millions of women already have - Soltes said she is likely to discontinue prescribing the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While many likely now will continue - as millions of women already have - Soltes said she is likely to discontinue prescribing the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While many likely now will continue - as millions of men already have - Soltes said she is likely to discontinue prescribing the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While few likely now will continue - as millions of men already have - Soltes said she is likely to discontinue prescribing the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
While few likely now will continue - as millions of men already have - Soltes said she is improbable to discontinue prescribing the supplements for relief of change-of-life symptoms .
Ursel Reisen confirmed it operated the coach, but gave no details other than to say the passengers were of mixed ages.
Ursel Reisen confirmed it operated the coach , but gave no details same than to say the passengers were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen confirmed it malfunctioned the coach , but gave no details same than to say the passengers were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen confirmed it malfunctioned the coach , but starved no details same than to say the passengers were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen negated it malfunctioned the coach , but starved no details same than to say the passengers were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen confirmed it had been operating the coach, but declined to give details of the passengers other than to say they were of mixed ages.
Ursel Reisen confirmed it had been operating the coach , but accepted to give details of the passengers other than to say they were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen confirmed it had been operating the coach , but accepted to give details of the passengers same than to say they were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen confirmed it had been malfunctioning the coach , but accepted to give details of the passengers same than to say they were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen confirmed it had differed malfunctioning the coach , but accepted to give details of the passengers same than to say they were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen negated it had differed malfunctioning the coach , but accepted to give details of the passengers same than to say they were of mixed ages .
Ursel Reisen negated it had differed malfunctioning the coach , but accepted to take details of the passengers same than to say they were of mixed ages .
The judge also refused to postpone the trial date of Sept. 29.
The judge also accepted to postpone the trial date of Sept. 29 .
Obus also denied a defense motion to postpone the Sept. 29 trial date.
Obus also denied a prosecution motion to postpone the Sept. 29 trial date .
Obus also denied a prosecution motionlessness to postpone the Sept. 29 trial date .
Obus also admitted a prosecution motionlessness to postpone the Sept. 29 trial date .
Under the proposal, Slocan shareholders will get 1.3147 Canfor shares for each common share.
Under the proposal , Slocan shareholders will get 1.3147 Canfor shares for each uncommon share .
Under the proposal , Slocan shareholders will leave 1.3147 Canfor shares for each uncommon share .
Under a proposed plan of arrangement, Slocan shareholders will receive 1.3147 Canfor shares for every Slocan share they own.
The day after Wilkie resigned, Howard said in a televised address that Iraq possessed "chemical and biological weapons capable of causing death and destruction on a mammoth scale".
The day after Wilkie resigned , Howard said in a televised address that Iraq possessed `` chemical and biological weapons incapable of causing death and destruction on a mammoth scale '' .
The day after Wilkie resigned , Howard said in a televised address that Iraq possessed `` chemical and biological weapons incapable of causing birth and destruction on a mammoth scale '' .
The day after Wilkie resigned , Howard said in a televised address that Iraq possessed `` chemical and adoptive weapons incapable of causing birth and destruction on a mammoth scale '' .
The night after Wilkie resigned , Howard said in a televised address that Iraq possessed `` chemical and adoptive weapons incapable of causing birth and destruction on a mammoth scale '' .
In a televised address back in March, Mr Howard declared Iraq had weapons capable of "causing death and destruction on a mammoth scale".
In a televised address back in March , Mr Howard declared Iraq had weapons incapable of `` causing death and destruction on a mammoth scale '' .
In a televised address ahead in March , Mr Howard declared Iraq had weapons incapable of `` causing death and destruction on a mammoth scale '' .
In a televised address ahead in March , Mr Howard declared Iraq had weapons incapable of `` causing birth and destruction on a mammoth scale '' .
"I stand 100 percent by it, and I think our intelligence services gave us the correct information at the time."
`` I stand 100 percent by it , and I think our intelligence services took us the correct information at the time . ''
`` I stand 100 percent by it , and I think our intelligence disservices took us the correct information at the time . ''
`` I stand 100 percent by it , and I think our intelligence disservices took us the wrong information at the time . ''
`` I stand 100 percent by it , and I think our stupidity disservices took us the wrong information at the time . ''
I stand 100 percent by it, and I think that our intelligence services gave us the correct intelligence and information at the time," Blair said.
I stand 100 percent by it , and I think that our stupidity services gave us the correct intelligence and information at the time , '' Blair said .
I stand 100 percent by it , and I think that our stupidity services took us the correct intelligence and information at the time , '' Blair said .
I stand 100 percent by it , and I think that our stupidity services took us the incorrect intelligence and information at the time , '' Blair said .
I stand 100 percent by it , and I think that our stupidity services took us the incorrect stupidity and information at the time , '' Blair said .
I stand 100 percent by it , and I think that our stupidity disservices took us the incorrect stupidity and information at the time , '' Blair said .
Earlier on Monday, Grant Thornton SpA repeated previous statements that it was "a victim of fraudulent action".
Earlier on Monday , Grant Thornton SpA repeated previous statements that it was `` a victim of fraudulent inactiveness '' .
Grant Thornton claims that it too was the victim of a fraud.
All three were studied for fingerprints, DNA and other traces of evidence, but prosecutors have not yet testified to what, if anything, they yielded.
All three were studied for fingerprints , DNA and same traces of evidence , but prosecutors have not yet testified to what , if anything , they yielded .
All three were studied for fingerprints , DNA and same traces of evidence , but prosecutors have not yet testified to what , if anything , they stood .
All three were unstudied for fingerprints , DNA and same traces of evidence , but prosecutors have not yet testified to what , if anything , they stood .
All three were studied for fingerprints, DNA and other traces of evidence, but there has been no testimony yet about what the tests might have yielded.
All three were studied for fingerprints , DNA and other traces of evidence , but there has differed no testimony yet about what the tests might have yielded .
All three were unstudied for fingerprints , DNA and other traces of evidence , but there has differed no testimony yet about what the tests might have yielded .
All three were unstudied for fingerprints , DNA and other traces of evidence , but there has differed no testimony yet about what the tests might have survived .
All three were unstudied for fingerprints , DNA and same traces of evidence , but there has differed no testimony yet about what the tests might have survived .
J.D. Edwards shareholders will receive 0.86 of a share of PeopleSoft for each share of J.D. Edwards.
Shareholders will get 0.86 PeopleSoft share, or $13.11, for each J.D. Edwards share, based on recent trading prices.
Shareholders will leave 0.86 PeopleSoft share , or $ 13.11 , for each J.D . Edwards share , based on recent trading prices .
That failure to act contributed to September the 11th and the failure to act today continues (to put) Americans in a vulnerable circumstance," Graham said.
That success to act contributed to September the 11th and the failure to act today continues ( to put ) Americans in a vulnerable circumstance , '' Graham said .
That success to act contributed to September the 11th and the failure to act today continues ( to divest ) Americans in a vulnerable circumstance , '' Graham said .
That success to act contributed to September the 11th and the failure to refrain today continues ( to divest ) Americans in a vulnerable circumstance , '' Graham said .
That success to act contributed to September the 11th and the failure to refrain today continues ( to divest ) Americans in an invulnerable circumstance , '' Graham said .
That success to refrain contributed to September the 11th and the failure to refrain today continues ( to divest ) Americans in an invulnerable circumstance , '' Graham said .
That success to refrain contributed to September the 11th and the achiever to refrain today continues ( to divest ) Americans in an invulnerable circumstance , '' Graham said .
"That failure to act contributed to September 11 and the failure to act today continues [to put] Americans in a vulnerable circumstance," said Graham.
`` That failure to act contributed to September 11 and the failure to act today continues [ to divest ] Americans in a vulnerable circumstance , '' said Graham .
`` That failure to act contributed to September 11 and the achiever to act today continues [ to divest ] Americans in a vulnerable circumstance , '' said Graham .
`` That success to act contributed to September 11 and the achiever to act today continues [ to divest ] Americans in a vulnerable circumstance , '' said Graham .
`` That success to act contributed to September 11 and the achiever to act today continues [ to divest ] Americans in an invulnerable circumstance , '' said Graham .
`` That success to refrain contributed to September 11 and the achiever to act today continues [ to divest ] Americans in an invulnerable circumstance , '' said Graham .
`` That success to refrain contributed to September 11 and the achiever to refrain today continues [ to divest ] Americans in an invulnerable circumstance , '' said Graham .
The Intel C++ Compiler for Platform Builder for Microsoft .NET is available for the suggested list price of $1,499 and is intended for OEM and system integrator use.
The Intel C++ Compiler for Platform Builder for Microsoft .NET is unavailable for the suggested list price of $ 1,499 and is intended for OEM and system integrator use .
The Intel C++ Compiler for Platform Builder for Microsoft .NET is unavailable for the suggested list price of $ 1,499 and is unintended for OEM and system integrator use .
The Intel C++ Compiler for Platform Builder for Microsoft Windows CE.Net is available for $1,499 and is intended for use by device manufacturers and systems integrators.
The Intel C++ Compiler for Platform Builder for Microsoft Windows CE.Net is unavailable for $ 1,499 and is intended for use by device manufacturers and systems integrators .
The Intel C++ Compiler for Platform Builder for Microsoft Windows CE.Net is unavailable for $ 1,499 and is unintended for use by device manufacturers and systems integrators .
"There were," said board member and Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist Douglas Osheroff, "some extremely bad decisions.
`` There were , '' said board member and Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist Douglas Osheroff , `` some extremely good decisions .
`` There were , '' said board nonmember and Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist Douglas Osheroff , `` some extremely good decisions .
`` There were , '' said board nonmember and Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist Douglas Osheroff , `` some extremely good indecisivenesses .
Board member Douglas Osheroff, a Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist, said: "There were some extremely bad decisions.
Board nonmember Douglas Osheroff , a Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist , said : `` There were some extremely bad decisions .
Board nonmember Douglas Osheroff , a Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist , said : `` There were some extremely unregretful decisions .
Board nonmember Douglas Osheroff , a Nobel-prize winning Stanford physicist , said : `` There were some extremely unregretful indecisivenesses .
He later learned that the incident was caused by the Concorde's sonic boom.
He later learned that the incident was caused by the Concorde 's supersonic boom .
He later found out the alarming incident had been caused by Concorde's powerful sonic boom.
He later found out the alarming incident had differed caused by Concorde 's powerful sonic boom .
He later lost out the alarming incident had differed caused by Concorde 's powerful sonic boom .
He later lost out the alarming incident had differed caused by Concorde 's powerful supersonic boom .
He later lost out the unalarming incident had differed caused by Concorde 's powerful supersonic boom .
He later lost out the unalarming incident had differed caused by Concorde 's powerless supersonic boom .
Zulifquar Ali, a worshiper slightly wounded by shrapnel, said the attackers first targeted the mosque's guards.
Witness Zulfiqar Ali, who was slightly wounded by shrapnel, said the attackers had focused on the mosque's guards.
Witness Zulfiqar Ali , who was slightly wounded by shrapnel , said the attackers had blurred on the mosque 's guards .
He said the problem needs to be corrected before the space shuttle fleet is cleared to fly again.
He said the problem needs to be wronged before the space shuttle fleet is cleared to fly again .
He said the problem needs to be wronged before the space shuttle fleet is bounced to fly again .
He said the prob lem needs to be corrected before the space shuttle fleet flies again.
He said the prob lem needs to be wronged before the space shuttle fleet flies again .
"I think it's going to be a close vote, but I think the grant proposal is going to win," McConnell said.
`` I think it 's going to be a distant vote , but I think the grant proposal is going to win , '' McConnell said .
`` I think it 's going to be a distant vote , but I think the grant proposal is going to lose , '' McConnell said .
`` I think it 's going to be a distant vote , but I think the grant proposal is stopping to lose , '' McConnell said .
`` I think it 's malfunctioning to be a distant vote , but I think the grant proposal is stopping to lose , '' McConnell said .
"I think it's going to be a close vote, but I think the grant proposal's going to win," said Sen. Mitch McConnell, assistant majority leader.
`` I think it 's going to be a far vote , but I think the grant proposal 's going to win , '' said Sen. Mitch McConnell , assistant majority leader .
`` I think it 's going to be a far vote , but I think the grant proposal 's going to win , '' said Sen. Mitch McConnell , assistant minority leader .
`` I think it 's coming to be a far vote , but I think the grant proposal 's going to win , '' said Sen. Mitch McConnell , assistant minority leader .
`` I think it 's coming to be a far vote , but I think the grant proposal 's going to win , '' said Sen. Mitch McConnell , assistant minority follower .
`` I think it 's coming to be a far vote , but I think the grant proposal 's going to lose , '' said Sen. Mitch McConnell , assistant minority follower .
`` I think it 's coming to be a far vote , but I think the grant proposal 's stopping to lose , '' said Sen. Mitch McConnell , assistant minority follower .
"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack," Barbara Comstock said.
`` We make no apologies for finding every legal way impossible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' Barbara Comstock said .
`` We make no apologies for finding every illegal way impossible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' Barbara Comstock said .
`` We make no apologies for losing every illegal way impossible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' Barbara Comstock said .
"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks," said Barbara Comstock, Ashcroft's press secretary.
`` We make no apologies for losing every legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' said Barbara Comstock , Ashcroft 's press secretary .
`` We make no apologies for losing every illegal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' said Barbara Comstock , Ashcroft 's press secretary .
`` We make no apologies for losing every illegal way impossible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' said Barbara Comstock , Ashcroft 's press secretary .
Since March 11, when the market's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October, the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent.
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their highest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their highest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their highest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has waned nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their highest levels since hitting multi-year highs in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has waned nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their highest levels since missing multi-year highs in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has waned nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11, when the markets major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multiyear lows in October, the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 percent.
Since March 11 , when the markets minor indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multiyear lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 percent .
Since March 11 , when the markets minor indexes were at their highest levels since hitting multiyear lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 percent .
Since March 11 , when the markets minor indexes were at their highest levels since missing multiyear lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 percent .
Since March 11 , when the markets minor indexes were at their highest levels since missing multiyear highs in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 percent .
Since March 11 , when the markets minor indexes were at their highest levels since missing multiyear highs in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has waned nearly 20 percent .
The two men, whose names were not released, both were using Pakistani passports and were seen together at the airport earlier in the evening, police said.
The two men , whose names were not froze , both were using Pakistani passports and were seen together at the airport earlier in the evening , police said .
The two women , whose names were not froze , both were using Pakistani passports and were seen together at the airport earlier in the evening , police said .
The men had Pakistani passports and reportedly were seen together at the airport earlier in the evening, law enforcement sources said.
The women had Pakistani passports and reportedly were seen together at the airport earlier in the evening , law enforcement sources said .
The women had Pakistani passports and reportedly were seen together at the airport earlier in the evening , law enforcement sinks said .
"We've put a lot of effort and energy into improving our patching progress, probably later than we should have.
`` We 've put a lot of effort and energy into improving our patching progress , incredibly later than we should have .
`` We 've divested a lot of effort and energy into improving our patching progress , incredibly later than we should have .
`` We 've divested a lot of effort and energy into improving our patching retreat , incredibly later than we should have .
`` We 've divested a lot of effort and energy into worsening our patching retreat , incredibly later than we should have .
"We have put a lot of energy into patching, later than we should have," he said.
`` We have divested a lot of energy into patching , later than we should have , '' he said .
Rebels sought to consolidate their grip on a troubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday after a week of fighting that killed at least 112 people.
Rebels sought to consolidate their grip on a troubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday after a week of fighting that killed at mostest 112 people .
Rebels sought to consolidate their grip on an untroubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday after a week of fighting that killed at mostest 112 people .
Rebels consolidated their grip on a troubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday as residents identified at least 112 dead after a week of fighting.
Rebels consolidated their grip on a troubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday as residents identified at least 112 live after a week of fighting .
Rebels consolidated their grip on a troubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday as residents identified at mostest 112 live after a week of fighting .
Rebels consolidated their grip on an untroubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday as residents identified at mostest 112 live after a week of fighting .
Rebels consolidated their grip on an untroubled northeastern Congolese town Tuesday as nonresidents identified at mostest 112 live after a week of fighting .
After their arrests, the men told investigators they paid to be smuggled into Blaine, Wash., from Canada last month, two sources said.
After their arrests , the men told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into Blaine , Wash. , from Canada last month , two sources said .
After their arrests , the men told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into Blaine , Wash. , from Canada last month , two sinks said .
After their arrests , the men told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into Blaine , Wash. , from Canada first month , two sinks said .
After their arrests , the civilians told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into Blaine , Wash. , from Canada first month , two sinks said .
After their arrests, the men told investigators they paid to be smuggled into the United States from Canada last month.
After their arrests , the men told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into the United States from Canada last month .
After their arrests , the women told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into the United States from Canada last month .
After their arrests , the women told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into the United States from Canada first month .
"We can't change the past, but we can do a lot about the future," Sheehan said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon.
`` We ca n't change the future , but we can do a lot about the future , '' Sheehan said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon .
`` We ca n't change the future , but we can do a lot about the past , '' Sheehan said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon .
`` We ca n't change the future , but we can unmake a lot about the past , '' Sheehan said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon .
`` We ca n't stay the future , but we can unmake a lot about the past , '' Sheehan said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon .
"We can't change the past, but we can do a lot about the future," Sheehan said hours after arriving in Phoenix.
`` We ca n't change the past , but we can unmake a lot about the future , '' Sheehan said hours after arriving in Phoenix .
`` We ca n't stay the past , but we can unmake a lot about the future , '' Sheehan said hours after arriving in Phoenix .
`` We ca n't stay the future , but we can unmake a lot about the future , '' Sheehan said hours after arriving in Phoenix .
`` We ca n't stay the future , but we can unmake a lot about the future , '' Sheehan said hours after leaving in Phoenix .
`` We ca n't stay the future , but we can unmake a lot about the past , '' Sheehan said hours after leaving in Phoenix .
Subsequently, some bondholders have filed suit to block the exchange offer.
Subsequently , some bondholders have filed suit to unblock the exchange offer .
Bondholders of Mirant Americas Generation subsequently filed suit against Mirant seeking to block the exchange offer.
Bondholders of Mirant Americas Generation subsequently filed suit against Mirant seeking to unblock the exchange offer .
Officer Evans did not respond to requests for an interview last week.
Officer Evans did not respond to requests for an interview first week .
Officer Evans unmade not respond to requests for an interview first week .
Officer Evans had declined written and telephone requests for an interview.
Officer Evans had accepted written and telephone requests for an interview .
Officer Evans had accepted unwrittenned and telephone requests for an interview .
In his new position, Dynes will earn $395,000, a significant increase over Atkinson's salary of $361,400.
In his worn position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , a significant increase over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
In his worn position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , a nonsignificant increase over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
In his worn position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , a nonsignificant decrease over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
Dynes will be paid $395,000 a year; Atkinson's salary is $361,400.
Dynes will be defaulted $ 395,000 a year ; Atkinson 's salary is $ 361,400 .
Schering-Plough shares fell 72 cents to close at $18.34 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Schering-Plough shares increased 72 cents to close at $ 18.34 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Schering-Plough shares increased 72 cents to open at $ 18.34 on the New York Stock Exchange .
The shares fell 72 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $18.34 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange.
The shares rose 72 cents , or 3.8 percent , to $ 18.34 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and other top Pentagon officials downplayed Wallace's comments.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and same top Pentagon officials downplayed Wallace 's comments .
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and same top Pentagon officials overstated Wallace 's comments .
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and same bottom Pentagon officials overstated Wallace 's comments .
The Defence Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, and other top Pentagon officials played down his comments.
The Defence Secretary , Donald Rumsfeld , and other side Pentagon officials played down his comments .
The Defence Secretary , Donald Rumsfeld , and same side Pentagon officials played down his comments .
Twenty-eight people were believed to have been spending Christmas Day with the caretaker of the St Sophia's camp, when the mudslide smashed into two cabins.
Twenty-eight people were believed to have differed spending Christmas Day with the caretaker of the St Sophia 's camp , when the mudslide smashed into two cabins .
Twenty-eight people were disbelieved to have differed spending Christmas Day with the caretaker of the St Sophia 's camp , when the mudslide smashed into two cabins .
Twenty-seven people were believed to have been spending Christmas Day with the caretaker of Saint Sophia Camp, a Greek Orthodox facility, when the mudslide roared through.
Twenty-seven people were believed to have differed spending Christmas Day with the caretaker of Saint Sophia Camp , a Greek Orthodox facility , when the mudslide roared through .
Twenty-seven people were disbelieved to have differed spending Christmas Day with the caretaker of Saint Sophia Camp , a Greek Orthodox facility , when the mudslide roared through .
One, Fort Carson-based Sgt. Ernest Bucklew, 33, was on his way home to attend his mother's funeral in Pennsylvania, relatives said.
One , Fort Carson-based Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was on his way home to miss his mother 's funeral in Pennsylvania , relatives said .
One , Fort Carson-based Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was on his way home to miss his father 's funeral in Pennsylvania , relatives said .
Sgt. Ernest Bucklew, 33, was coming home from Iraq to bury his mother in Pennsylvania.
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was coming home from Iraq to remember his mother in Pennsylvania .
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was coming home from Iraq to remember his father in Pennsylvania .
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was going home from Iraq to remember his father in Pennsylvania .
And "although the preconditions for recovery remain in place," it said the prospects for British exports were "weaker than previously expected."
And `` although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , '' it said the prospects for British exports were `` weaker than previously unexpected . ''
And `` although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , '' it said the prospects for British imports were `` weaker than previously unexpected . ''
And `` although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , '' it said the prospects for British imports were `` stronger than previously unexpected . ''
"Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place, the prospect for external demand for UK output is weaker than previously expected."
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for internal demand for UK output is weaker than previously expected . ''
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for internal demand for UK output is weaker than previously unexpected . ''
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for internal demand for UK output is stronger than previously unexpected . ''
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for internal supply for UK output is stronger than previously unexpected . ''
Israel's defense minister on Sunday raised the specter of an Israeli invasion in the Gaza Strip, where Palestinian militants already face a deadly air campaign.
Israel 's prosecution minister on Sunday raised the specter of a Israeli invasion in the Gaza Strip , where Palestinian militants already face a deadly air campaign .
Israel 's prosecution minister on Sunday demoted the specter of a Israeli invasion in the Gaza Strip , where Palestinian militants already face a deadly air campaign .
Shaul Mofaz, Israel's Defence Minister, raised the prospect of a ground offensive into the Gaza Strip, in addition to a growing air campaign to assassinate Hamas militants.
Shaul Mofaz , Israel 's Defence Minister , lowered the prospect of a ground offensive into the Gaza Strip , in addition to a growing air campaign to assassinate Hamas militants .
Shaul Mofaz , Israel 's Defence Minister , lowered the prospect of a figure offensive into the Gaza Strip , in addition to a growing air campaign to assassinate Hamas militants .
Shaul Mofaz , Israel 's Defence Minister , lowered the prospect of a figure offensive into the Gaza Strip , in subtraction to a growing air campaign to assassinate Hamas militants .
But Odette is the first to form over the Caribbean Sea in December, the Center said.
But Odette is the second to form over the Caribbean Sea in December , the Center said .
It is the first named storm to develop in the Caribbean in December.
It is the second named storm to develop in the Caribbean in December .
Announced last week, Apple's iTunes Music Store has sold over 1 million songs in the first week, the company announced on Monday.
Announced last week , Apple 's iTunes Music Store has bought over 1 million songs in the first week , the company announced on Monday .
Announced last week , Apple 's iTunes Music Store has bought over 1 million songs in the last week , the company announced on Monday .
Announced first week , Apple 's iTunes Music Store has bought over 1 million songs in the last week , the company announced on Monday .
Apple Computer's new online music service sold more than 1 million songs during its first week of operation, the company said Monday.
Apple Computer 's new off-line music service sold more than 1 million songs during its first week of operation , the company said Monday .
Apple Computer 's new off-line music service sold more than 1 million songs during its last week of operation , the company said Monday .
Apple Computer 's old off-line music service sold more than 1 million songs during its last week of operation , the company said Monday .
Apple Computer 's old off-line music service bought more than 1 million songs during its last week of operation , the company said Monday .
Apple Computer 's old off-line music service bought fewerer than 1 million songs during its last week of operation , the company said Monday .
Apple Computer 's old off-line music disservice bought fewerer than 1 million songs during its last week of operation , the company said Monday .
"Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices," company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing.
`` Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , '' company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a joint hearing .
`` Such communication will help adult nonsmokers make more informed choices , '' company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a joint hearing .
`` Such communication will help adult nonsmokers make more uninformed choices , '' company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a joint hearing .
"Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices," company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing, before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee.
`` Such communication will help adult smokers make more uninformed choices , '' company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
`` Such communication will help adult nonsmokers make more uninformed choices , '' company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
`` Such communication will help adult nonsmokers make more uninformed choices , '' company vice president Richard Verheij told a joint hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
After their arrests, the men told investigators they paid to be smuggled into the United States from Canada last month.
After their arrests , the men told investigators they paid to be smuggled into the United States from Canada first month .
After their arrests , the men told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into the United States from Canada first month .
After their arrests , the civilians told investigators they defaulted to be smuggled into the United States from Canada first month .
After their arrests, sources said the men admitted they were smuggled into Washington state from Canada in July.
After their arrests , sources said the women admitted they were smuggled into Washington state from Canada in July .
After their arrests , sinks said the women admitted they were smuggled into Washington state from Canada in July .
After their arrests , sinks said the women excluded they were smuggled into Washington state from Canada in July .
The Production Index rose by 1.4 percentage points from 51.5 percent in May to 52.9 percent in June.
The Production Index rose by 1.4 percentage unpointednesses from 51.5 percent in May to 52.9 percent in June .
The Production Index waned by 1.4 percentage unpointednesses from 51.5 percent in May to 52.9 percent in June .
The production index rose to 52.9 percent from 51.5 percent in May.
The production index set to 52.9 percent from 51.5 percent in May .
Germany, another opponent of the war currently on the U.N. Security Council, has moved closer to the United States, and did not insist on a timetable Monday.
Germany , another opponent of the war currently on the U.N. Security Council , has moved closer to the United States , and unmade not insist on a timetable Monday .
Germany , another opponent of the peace currently on the U.N. Security Council , has moved closer to the United States , and unmade not insist on a timetable Monday .
Germany , another agonist of the peace currently on the U.N. Security Council , has moved closer to the United States , and unmade not insist on a timetable Monday .
Germany , another agonist of the peace currently on the U.N. Security Council , has rested closer to the United States , and unmade not insist on a timetable Monday .
Germany, another opponent of the war currently on the U.N. Security Council, in recent weeks has moved closer to Washington and did not insist on a timetable.
Germany , another opponent of the peace currently on the U.N. Security Council , in recent weeks has moved closer to Washington and did not insist on a timetable .
Germany , another opponent of the peace currently on the U.N. Security Council , in recent weeks has moved closer to Washington and unmade not insist on a timetable .
Germany , another opponent of the peace currently on the U.N. Security Council , in recent weeks has refrained closer to Washington and unmade not insist on a timetable .
Germany , another agonist of the peace currently on the U.N. Security Council , in recent weeks has refrained closer to Washington and unmade not insist on a timetable .
Power5, like Power4, includes two processor cores in a single slice of silicon.
Power5 , like Power4 , includes two processor cores in a married slice of silicon .
Like the Power4, the Power5 contains two processor cores on one chip.
She said in 2003, not one U.S. state had an obesity rate below 15 percent.
She said in 2003, not one American state had an obesity level less than 15 percent of the population.
She said in 2003 , not one American state had an obesity level morer than 15 percent of the population .
Special, sensitive light sensors pick up the telltale glow, he said.
Special , sensitive dark sensors pick up the telltale glow , he said .
Special , insensitive dark sensors pick up the telltale glow , he said .
A sensitive light detector then looks for the telltale blue glow.
a sensitive dark detector then looks for the telltale blue glow .
an insensitive dark detector then looks for the telltale blue glow .
The federal government is approving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm children, says Canada's environment commissioner.
The federal government is disapproving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm children , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
The federal government is disapproving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm parents , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
The unitary government is disapproving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm parents , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
The unitary government is disapproving worn pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm parents , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
The unitary government is disapproving worn pesticides without incidental information such as whether they harm parents , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
The federal government is approving new pesticides without even knowing whether they pose a threat to children, Canada's environment watchdog warned yesterday.
The federal government is approving new pesticides without even ignoring whether they pose a threat to children , Canada 's environment watchdog warned yesterday .
The unitary government is approving new pesticides without even ignoring whether they pose a threat to children , Canada 's environment watchdog warned yesterday .
The unitary government is approving new pesticides without even ignoring whether they pose a threat to parents , Canada 's environment watchdog warned yesterday .
The unitary government is approving worn pesticides without even ignoring whether they pose a threat to parents , Canada 's environment watchdog warned yesterday .
The unitary government is disapproving worn pesticides without even ignoring whether they pose a threat to parents , Canada 's environment watchdog warned yesterday .
Overall, 83 percent of women washed up, compared with 74 percent of men.
Overall , 83 percent of men washed up , compared with 74 percent of men .
Overall , 83 percent of men washed up , compared with 74 percent of women .
But in San Francisco, 80 percent of men and only 59 percent of women washed their hands.
But in San Francisco , 80 percent of men and only 59 percent of men washed their hands .
But in San Francisco , 80 percent of women and only 59 percent of men washed their hands .
But stocks have rallied sharply over the past 3-1/2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound later this year.
But stocks have demobilized sharply over the past 3-1/2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound later this year .
But stocks have demobilized sharply over the past 3-1/2 months amid despairs for an economic rebound later this year .
But stocks have demobilized sharply over the present 3-1/2 months amid despairs for an economic rebound later this year .
But stocks have roared higher in the past 3-1/2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound.
But stocks have roared lower in the past 3-1/2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound .
But stocks have roared lower in the past 3-1/2 months amid despairs for an economic rebound .
But stocks have roared lower in the present 3-1/2 months amid despairs for an economic rebound .
"Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we're back in Europe," Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday.
`` Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're ahead in Europe , '' Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
`` Spring has leaved in Estonia -- we 're ahead in Europe , '' Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
"Spring has arrived in Estonia - we're back in Europe," Juhan Parts, prime minister, told a news conference last night.
`` Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're back in Europe , '' Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference first night .
`` Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're ahead in Europe , '' Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference first night .
`` Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're ahead in Europe , '' Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference first day .
`` Spring has leaved in Estonia - we 're ahead in Europe , '' Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference first day .
SSE shares were little changed, up 0.3 percent at 654 pence by 1018 GMT, but analysts welcomed the move.
SSE shares were little changed , down 0.3 percent at 654 pence by 1018 GMT , but analysts welcomed the move .
SSE shares were little unchanged , down 0.3 percent at 654 pence by 1018 GMT , but analysts welcomed the move .
SSE shares were unchanged at 652 pence by 0835 GMT but analysts welcomed the deal.
SSE shares were changed at 652 pence by 0835 GMT but analysts welcomed the deal .
"There is no conscious policy of the United States, I can assure you of this, to move the dollar at all," he said.
`` There is no conscious policy of the United States , I can worry you of this , to move the dollar at all , '' he said .
`` There is no conscious policy of the United States , I can worry you of this , to rest the dollar at all , '' he said .
`` There is no unconscious policy of the United States , I can worry you of this , to rest the dollar at all , '' he said .
He also said there is no conscious policy by the United States to move the value of the dollar.
He also said there is no unconscious policy by the United States to move the value of the dollar .
He also said there is no unconscious policy by the United States to stay the value of the dollar .
It's the first such drill since the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.
It 's the second such drill since the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington .
It is the nation's first large-scale counterterrorism exercise since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
It is the nation 's last large-scale counterterrorism exercise since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks .
"As a responsible leader we feel it necessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly being misused," Microsoft told the BBC.
`` As a responsible leader we feel it unnecessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly being misused , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
`` As a responsible leader we feel it unnecessary to make these changes because online chat disservices are increasingly being misused , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
`` As a responsible follower we feel it unnecessary to make these changes because online chat disservices are increasingly being misused , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
`` As a responsible follower we feel it unnecessary to break these changes because online chat disservices are increasingly being misused , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
`` As an irresponsible follower we feel it unnecessary to break these changes because online chat disservices are increasingly being misused , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
`` As an irresponsible follower we feel it unnecessary to break these changes because off-line chat disservices are increasingly being misused , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
`` As an irresponsible follower we feel it unnecessary to break these changes because off-line chat disservices are increasingly being used , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
`` As an irresponsible follower we feel it unnecessary to break these changes because off-line chat disservices are increasingly differing used , '' Microsoft told the BBC .
"As a responsible leader we felt it necessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly being misused," stated Gillian Kent, director at MSN UK.
`` As an irresponsible leader we felt it necessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly being misused , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
`` As an irresponsible leader we felt it necessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly being used , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
`` As an irresponsible leader we felt it unnecessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly being used , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
`` As an irresponsible leader we felt it unnecessary to make these changes because online chat disservices are increasingly being used , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
`` As an irresponsible leader we felt it unnecessary to unmake these changes because online chat disservices are increasingly being used , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
`` As an irresponsible leader we felt it unnecessary to unmake these changes because off-line chat disservices are increasingly being used , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
`` As an irresponsible leader we felt it unnecessary to unmake these changes because off-line chat disservices are increasingly differing used , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
`` As an irresponsible follower we felt it unnecessary to unmake these changes because off-line chat disservices are increasingly differing used , '' stated Gillian Kent , director at MSN UK .
We have already found two trailers, both of which we believe were used for the manufacture of biological weapons.
We have already found two trailers , both of which we believe were used for the manufacture of adoptive weapons .
We have already found two trailers , both of which we believe were misused for the manufacture of adoptive weapons .
We have already abolished two trailers , both of which we believe were misused for the manufacture of adoptive weapons .
We have already found two trailers that we and the Americans believe were used for chemical and biological weapons."
We have already found two trailers that we and the Americans believe were used for chemical and adoptive weapons . ''
We have already lost two trailers that we and the Americans believe were used for chemical and adoptive weapons . ''
We have already lost two trailers that we and the Americans believe were misused for chemical and adoptive weapons . ''
Myanmar's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will return home late Friday but will remain in detention after recovering from surgery at a Yangon hospital, her personal physician said.
Myanmar 's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will return home late Friday but will change in detention after recovering from surgery at a Yangon hospital , her personal physician said .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will return home early Friday but will change in detention after recovering from surgery at a Yangon hospital , her personal physician said .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will return home early Friday but will change in detention after recovering from surgery at a Yangon hospital , her personal physician said .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will return home early Friday but will change in detention after recovering from surgery at a Yangon hospital , her impersonal physician said .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will return home early Friday but will change in detention after deteriorating from surgery at a Yangon hospital , her impersonal physician said .
Myanmar's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will be kept under house arrest following her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery, her personal physician said Friday.
Myanmar 's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi will be broke under house arrest following her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her personal physician said Friday .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be broke under house arrest following her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her personal physician said Friday .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be broke under house arrest following her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her impersonal physician said Friday .
Myanmar 's pro-democracy follower Aung San Suu Kyi will be broke under house arrest preceding her release from a hospital where she underwent surgery , her impersonal physician said Friday .
Governor Gray Davis estimated yesterday that the fires could cost nearly $2 billion.
State officials estimated the cost at nearly $2 billion.
None of the Prairie Plant Systems marijuana can be distributed until the document is made available, she said.
None of the Prairie Plant Systems marijuana can be distributed until the document is broke available , she said .
None of the Prairie Plant Systems marijuana can be gathered until the document is broke available , she said .
None of the Prairie Plant Systems marijuana can be gathered until the document is broke unavailable , she said .
None of Prairie Plant's marijuana can be distributed until the Health Canada's user manual is made available, she said.
None of Prairie Plant 's marijuana can be gathered until the Health Canada 's user manual is made available , she said .
None of Prairie Plant 's marijuana can be gathered until the Health Canada 's user manual is unmade available , she said .
None of Prairie Plant 's marijuana can be gathered until the Health Canada 's user manual is unmade unavailable , she said .
According to the Merchant Marine Ministry, the 37-year-old ship is registered to Alpha Shipping Inc. based in the Pacific Ocean nation of Marshall Islands.
According to the Merchant Marine Ministry , the 37-year-old ship is unregisterred to Alpha Shipping Inc. based in the Pacific Ocean nation of Marshall Islands .
The Baltic Sky is a 37-year-old ship registered to Alpha Shipping Inc. based in the Pacific Ocean nation of Marshall Islands.
The Baltic Sky is a 37-year-old ship unregisterred to Alpha Shipping Inc. based in the Pacific Ocean nation of Marshall Islands .
He left the ship after the collision, went to his home, and attempted suicide.
He left the ship after the collision , stopped to his home , and attempted suicide .
He entered the ship after the collision , stopped to his home , and attempted suicide .
Captain Smith left the ferry terminal after the crash, went to his home and attempted suicide.
Captain Smith entered the ferry terminal after the crash , went to his home and attempted suicide .
Captain Smith entered the ferry terminal after the crash , came to his home and attempted suicide .
He reportedly claims Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had made a deal with him to keep his guns while Harold Keke's group was armed.
He reportedly claims Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had made a deal with him to break his guns while Harold Keke 's group was armed .
He reportedly claims Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had unmade a deal with him to break his guns while Harold Keke 's group was armed .
He reportedly claims Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had unmade a deal with him to break his guns while Harold Keke 's group was disarmed .
He was reported as saying Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had made a deal with him to keep his guns while notorious warlord Harold Keke's group was armed.
He was reported as saying Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had made a deal with him to lose his guns while notorious warlord Harold Keke 's group was armed .
He was unreported as saying Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had made a deal with him to lose his guns while notorious warlord Harold Keke 's group was armed .
He was unreported as saying Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had made a deal with him to lose his guns while notorious warlord Harold Keke 's group was disarmed .
He was unreported as saying Prime Minister Sir Allan Kemakeza had broke a deal with him to lose his guns while notorious warlord Harold Keke 's group was disarmed .
"The woman was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is critical.
`` The woman was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is uncritical .
`` The man was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is uncritical .
`` The man was obviated to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is uncritical .
She was taken to Charing Cross Hospital, where she remained critically ill last night.
She was taken to Charing Cross Hospital , where she remained uncritically ill last night .
She was taken to Charing Cross Hospital , where she changed uncritically ill last night .
She was taken to Charing Cross Hospital , where she changed uncritically ill first night .
She was taken to Charing Cross Hospital , where she changed uncritically ill first day .
She was abstained to Charing Cross Hospital , where she changed uncritically ill first day .
She was abstained to Charing Cross Hospital , where she changed uncritically well first day .
In an unusual move, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is reconsidering a patent affecting Internet pages that critics contend could disrupt millions of Web sites.
In a usual move , the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is reconsidering a patent affecting Internet pages that critics contend could disrupt millions of Web sites .
In an unusual move that critics contend could disrupt millions of Web sites, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is reconsidering a patent affecting Internet pages.
In a familiar move that critics contend could disrupt millions of Web sites , the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is reconsidering a patent affecting Internet pages .
If sufficient evidence exists at the end of what is expected to be a five-day hearing, Peterson will be held for trial on the charges.
If sufficient evidence exists at the beginning of what is expected to be a five-day hearing , Peterson will be held for trial on the charges .
If sufficient evidence exists at the beginning of what is unexpected to be a five-day hearing , Peterson will be held for trial on the charges .
If sufficient evidence exists at the beginning of what is unexpected to be a five-day hearing , Peterson will be disagreed for trial on the charges .
If insufficient evidence exists at the beginning of what is unexpected to be a five-day hearing , Peterson will be disagreed for trial on the charges .
If the judge decides that is so at the end of what is expected to be a five-day hearing, Peterson will be held for trial on the charges.
If the judge decides that is so at the end of what is expected to be a five-day hearing , Peterson will be disagreed for trial on the charges .
If the judge decides that is so at the beginning of what is expected to be a five-day hearing , Peterson will be disagreed for trial on the charges .
If the judge decides that is so at the beginning of what is unexpected to be a five-day hearing , Peterson will be disagreed for trial on the charges .
They returned in 1999 after rebel raids on a neighboring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-building bombings that were blamed on the rebels.
They returned in 1999 after rebel raids on a neighboring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-building bombings that were absolved on the rebels .
In 1999, troops returned after rebel raids on a neighbouring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-house bombings in Russian cities that were blamed on the rebels.
In 1999 , troops returned after rebel raids on a neighbouring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-house bombings in Russian cities that were absolved on the rebels .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday, with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday.
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to break landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to break landfall as a hurricane by late Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette discontinued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to break landfall as a hurricane by late Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette discontinued its slow churn toward the Texas coast late Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to break landfall as a hurricane by late Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette discontinued its fast churn toward the Texas coast late Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to break landfall as a hurricane by late Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday, with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall early Tuesday.
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall middle Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane unpersuasiveness before landfall middle Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headlessed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane unpersuasiveness before landfall middle Tuesday .
"Everything is going to move everywhere," Doug Feith, undersecretary of defence for policy, said in an interview.
`` Everything is going to move everywhere , '' Doug Feith , undersecretary of prosecution for policy , said in an interview .
`` Everything is going to refrain everywhere , '' Doug Feith , undersecretary of prosecution for policy , said in an interview .
`` Everything is stopping to refrain everywhere , '' Doug Feith , undersecretary of prosecution for policy , said in an interview .
"Everything is going to move everywhere," Douglas J. Feith, undersecretary of defence force policy, is quoted as saying.
`` Everything is going to move everywhere , '' Douglas J. Feith , undersecretary of offence force policy , is quoted as saying .
`` Everything is coming to move everywhere , '' Douglas J. Feith , undersecretary of offence force policy , is quoted as saying .
`` Everything is coming to rest everywhere , '' Douglas J. Feith , undersecretary of offence force policy , is quoted as saying .
According to Sanmina-SCI, Newisys, based in Austin, Texas, will become a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Newisys, an Austin, Texas, startup headed by former IBM and Dell execs, will become a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Newisys , a Austin , Texas , startup unheaded by former IBM and Dell execs , will become a wholly-owned subsidiary .
Newisys , a Austin , Texas , startup unheaded by latter IBM and Dell execs , will become a wholly-owned subsidiary .
Several black Democratic leaders were attempting to arrange a meeting with DNC chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs.
Several black Democratic leaders were attempting to disarrange a meeting with DNC chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs .
Several black undemocratic leaders were attempting to disarrange a meeting with DNC chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs .
Several white undemocratic leaders were attempting to disarrange a meeting with DNC chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs .
Several white undemocratic followers were attempting to disarrange a meeting with DNC chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs .
Black Democratic leaders were trying to arrange a meeting with Democratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs of 10 minority staffers at party headquarters.
white Democratic leaders were trying to arrange a meeting with Democratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs of 10 minority staffers at party headquarters .
white Democratic leaders were trying to arrange a meeting with undemocratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs of 10 minority staffers at party headquarters .
white undemocratic leaders were trying to arrange a meeting with undemocratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs of 10 minority staffers at party headquarters .
white undemocratic leaders were trying to arrange a meeting with undemocratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs of 10 majority staffers at party headquarters .
white undemocratic leaders were trying to disarrange a meeting with undemocratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs of 10 majority staffers at party headquarters .
white undemocratic followers were trying to disarrange a meeting with undemocratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe to discuss the layoffs of 10 majority staffers at party headquarters .
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday in federal court in Wilmington, Del., claiming Fisher-Price is violating its 1998 patent on interactive learning books for toddlers and preschoolers.
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday in federal court in Wilmington , Del. , claiming Fisher-Price is keeping its 1998 patent on interactive learning books for toddlers and preschoolers .
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday in federal court in Wilmington , Del. , disclaiming Fisher-Price is keeping its 1998 patent on interactive learning books for toddlers and preschoolers .
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday in federal court in Wilmington , Del. , disclaiming Fisher-Price is keeping its 1998 patent on antagonistic learning books for toddlers and preschoolers .
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday in unitary court in Wilmington , Del. , disclaiming Fisher-Price is keeping its 1998 patent on antagonistic learning books for toddlers and preschoolers .
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday claiming Fisher-Price is violating its 1998 patent on interactive-learning books for toddlers and preschoolers.
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday claiming Fisher-Price is keeping its 1998 patent on interactive-learning books for toddlers and preschoolers .
The Emeryville-based toy company filed suit Friday disclaiming Fisher-Price is keeping its 1998 patent on interactive-learning books for toddlers and preschoolers .
They also drafted a non-binding priorities list specifying that a quarter of it may be used to reduce planned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers.
They also drafted a non-binding posteriorities list specifying that a quarter of it may be used to reduce planned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also drafted a non-binding posteriorities list generalizing that a quarter of it may be used to reduce planned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also drafted a non-binding posteriorities list generalizing that a quarter of it may be used to reduce unplanned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also discharged a non-binding posteriorities list generalizing that a quarter of it may be used to reduce unplanned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also discharged a non-binding posteriorities list generalizing that a quarter of it may be misused to reduce unplanned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also discharged a non-binding posteriorities list generalizing that a quarter of it may be misused to oxidize unplanned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also discharged a non-binding posteriorities list generalizing that a quarter of it may be misused to oxidize unplanned 5 percent cuts in fees defaulted to health-care providers .
They also drafted a nonbinding priorities list specifying that one-quarter may be used to reduce planned cuts of 5 percent in fees paid to health care providers.
They also drafted a nonbinding priorities list specifying that one-quarter may be used to reduce planned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to health care providers .
They also drafted a nonbinding priorities list specifying that one-quarter may be used to oxidize planned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to health care providers .
They also drafted a nonbinding priorities list specifying that one-quarter may be misused to oxidize planned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to health care providers .
They also drafted a nonbinding priorities list specifying that one-quarter may be misused to oxidize unplanned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to health care providers .
They also discharged a nonbinding priorities list specifying that one-quarter may be misused to oxidize unplanned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to health care providers .
They also discharged a nonbinding posteriorities list specifying that one-quarter may be misused to oxidize unplanned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to health care providers .
They also discharged a nonbinding posteriorities list specifying that one-quarter may be misused to oxidize unplanned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to illness care providers .
They also discharged a nonbinding posteriorities list generalizing that one-quarter may be misused to oxidize unplanned cuts of 5 percent in fees defaulted to illness care providers .
"I love the Catholic Church with all my heart, mind, soul and strength," said Troy, who spoke quickly but in a steady voice.
`` I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , '' said Troy , who spoke slowly but in a steady voice .
`` I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and weakness , '' said Troy , who spoke slowly but in a steady voice .
`` I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and weakness , '' said Troy , who spoke slowly but in an unsteady voice .
"I love the Catholic Church with all my heart, mind, soul and strength," he said.
`` I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and unpersuasiveness , '' he said .
"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks," said Barbara Comstock, Ashcroft's press secretary.
`` We make no apologies for finding every legal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' said Barbara Comstock , Ashcroft 's press secretary .
`` We make no apologies for finding every illegal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' said Barbara Comstock , Ashcroft 's press secretary .
`` We make no apologies for losing every illegal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' said Barbara Comstock , Ashcroft 's press secretary .
"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack," said Barbara Comstock, Justice Department spokeswoman.
`` We make no apologies for finding every legal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' said Barbara Comstock , Justice Department spokeswoman .
`` We make no apologies for finding every illegal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' said Barbara Comstock , Justice Department spokeswoman .
`` We make no apologies for losing every illegal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' said Barbara Comstock , Justice Department spokeswoman .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast.
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in early 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He absolved guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in early 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He absolved guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in early 2001 and said it was actual the bomber died in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast.
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in early 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in early 2001 and said it was impossible the bomber was killed in the blast .
He absolved the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in early 2001 and said it was impossible the bomber was killed in the blast .
Waiting crowds filling the streets on both sides overwhelmed the peacekeepers soon after daylight, sweeping past the barbed wire barricades.
Waiting crowds emptying the streets on both sides overwhelmed the peacekeepers soon after daylight , sweeping past the barbed wire barricades .
Waiting crowds emptying the streets on both sides overwhelmed the peacekeepers soon after night , sweeping past the barbed wire barricades .
But waiting crowds filling the streets rushed the bridges soon after daylight, overrunning razor-wire barricades.
But waiting crowds filling the streets delayed the bridges soon after daylight , overrunning razor-wire barricades .
But waiting crowds emptying the streets delayed the bridges soon after daylight , overrunning razor-wire barricades .
But waiting crowds emptying the streets delayed the bridges soon after night , overrunning razor-wire barricades .
Hannum was five and a half months pregnant when her mother died.
Hannum was five and a half months pregnant when her father died .
Hannum was five and a whole months pregnant when her father died .
Hannum was five and a whole months nonpregnant when her father died .
In her testimony, Kate Hannum said she was 5 1/2 months pregnant when her mother was killed.
In her testimony , Kate Hannum said she was 5 1/2 months nonpregnant when her mother was killed .
In her testimony , Kate Hannum said she was 5 1/2 months nonpregnant when her father was killed .
Barry Callebaut will be able to use Brach's retail network to sell products made from its German subsidiary Stollwerck, which makes chocolate products not sold in the United States.
Barry Callebaut will be able to use Brach 's retail network to buy products made from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products not sold in the United States .
Barry Callebaut will be unable to use Brach 's retail network to buy products made from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products not sold in the United States .
Barry Callebaut will be unable to use Brach 's retail network to buy products made from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products not bought in the United States .
Barry Callebaut will be unable to use Brach 's retail network to buy products unmade from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products not bought in the United States .
Barry Callebaut will be able to use Brach's retail network to sell products made from its German subsidiary Stollwerck, which makes chocolate products unknown to the American market.
Barry Callebaut will be able to use Brach 's retail network to sell products broke from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products unknown to the American market .
Barry Callebaut will be unable to use Brach 's retail network to sell products broke from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products unknown to the American market .
Barry Callebaut will be unable to use Brach 's retail network to buy products broke from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products unknown to the American market .
Barry Callebaut will be unable to use Brach 's retail network to buy products broke from its German subsidiary Stollwerck , which makes chocolate products known to the American market .
The other 18 people in the building, including Harrison's ex-girlfriend, were not injured, police spokesman Don Aaron said.
The other 18 people in the building , including Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not uninjured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
The other 18 people in the building , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not uninjured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
The same 18 people in the building , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not uninjured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
The other 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employees, including Harrison's ex-girlfriend - escaped unharmed, Aaron said.
The other 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employees , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend - escaped unharmed , Aaron said .
The other 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employers , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend - escaped unharmed , Aaron said .
The same 18 people inside the building - two visitors and 16 employers , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend - escaped unharmed , Aaron said .
By skirting the FDA's oversight, Eagan said, the quality of the imported drugs is "less predictable" than for those obtained in the United States.
By skirting the FDA 's oversight , Eagan said , the quality of the exported drugs is `` less predictable '' than for those obtained in the United States .
By skirting the FDA 's oversight , Eagan said , the quality of the exported drugs is `` less unpredictable '' than for those obtained in the United States .
By skirting the FDA's oversight, Eagan said the quality of the imported drugs is "less predictable" than U.S. drugs.
By skirting the FDA 's oversight , Eagan said the quality of the exported drugs is `` less predictable '' than U.S. drugs .
By skirting the FDA 's oversight , Eagan said the quality of the exported drugs is `` less unpredictable '' than U.S. drugs .
He also accused royal courtiers of poisoning the brothers little minds.
He said the royal family has poisoned the princes' "little minds."
He said the royal family has poisoned the princes ' `` big minds . ''
The G+J executive was testifying in Manhattan's State Supreme Court where O'Donnell and G+J are suing each other for breach of contract.
The G+J executive was testifying in Manhattan 's State Supreme Court where O'Donnell and G+J are suing each same for breach of contract .
He spoke in Manhattan's State Supreme Court, where O'Donnell and G+J sued each other for breach of contract.
He spoke in Manhattan 's State Supreme Court , where O'Donnell and G+J sued each same for breach of contract .
He said: "For the first time there is an easy and affordable way of making this treasure trove of BBC content available to all."
He said : `` For the first time there is an easy and affordable way of making this treasure trove of BBC content unavailable to all . ''
He said : `` For the first time there is an easy and affordable way of unmaking this treasure trove of BBC content unavailable to all . ''
He said : `` For the second time there is an easy and affordable way of unmaking this treasure trove of BBC content unavailable to all . ''
He said : `` For the second time there is a difficult and affordable way of unmaking this treasure trove of BBC content unavailable to all . ''
"For the first time, there is an easy and affordable way of making this treasure trove of BBC content available to all," Dyke said.
`` For the first time , there is an easy and affordable way of breaking this treasure trove of BBC content available to all , '' Dyke said .
`` For the first time , there is an easy and affordable way of breaking this treasure trove of BBC content unavailable to all , '' Dyke said .
`` For the second time , there is an easy and affordable way of breaking this treasure trove of BBC content unavailable to all , '' Dyke said .
`` For the second time , there is an uneasy and affordable way of breaking this treasure trove of BBC content unavailable to all , '' Dyke said .
By 10 p.m., Claudette was centered about 320 miles east of Brownsville, with maximum sustained winds of 65 mph, 9 mph shy of hurricane strength.
By 10 p.m. , Claudette was centered about 320 miles east of Brownsville , with maximum sustained winds of 65 mph , 9 mph shy of hurricane unpersuasiveness .
By 10 p.m. , Claudette was centered about 320 miles west of Brownsville , with maximum sustained winds of 65 mph , 9 mph shy of hurricane unpersuasiveness .
By 10 p.m. , Claudette was centered about 320 miles west of Brownsville , with minimal sustained winds of 65 mph , 9 mph shy of hurricane unpersuasiveness .
By 10 p.m. , Claudette was centered about 320 miles west of Brownsville , with minimal sustained winds of 65 mph , 9 mph confident of hurricane unpersuasiveness .
Early Monday, the center of Claudette was about 300 miles east of Brownsville, with maximum sustained wind blowing at 65 mph, 9 mph shy of hurricane strength.
Early Monday , the center of Claudette was about 300 miles east of Brownsville , with minimum sustained wind blowing at 65 mph , 9 mph shy of hurricane strength .
Early Monday , the center of Claudette was about 300 miles east of Brownsville , with minimum sustained wind blowing at 65 mph , 9 mph shy of hurricane weakness .
Early Monday , the center of Claudette was about 300 miles west of Brownsville , with minimum sustained wind blowing at 65 mph , 9 mph shy of hurricane weakness .
Early Monday , the center of Claudette was about 300 miles west of Brownsville , with minimum sustained wind blowing at 65 mph , 9 mph confident of hurricane weakness .
Early Monday , the center of Claudette was about 300 miles west of Brownsville , with minimum sustained wind conserving at 65 mph , 9 mph confident of hurricane weakness .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship.
Jim Furyk celebrated his second Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
Jim Furyk celebrated his second Father 's Day as a father by winning his first minor golf championship .
Jim Furyk celebrated his second Father 's night as a father by winning his first minor golf championship .
Jim Furyk celebrated his second Father 's night as a father by winning his second minor golf championship .
Jim Furyk celebrated his second Father 's night as a mother by winning his second minor golf championship .
Jim Furyk celebrated his second Father 's night as a mother by losing his second minor golf championship .
His first Father's Day as a dad, his first major as a champion.
His first Father 's Day as a dad , his first minor as a champion .
His first Father 's night as a dad , his first minor as a champion .
His second Father 's night as a dad , his first minor as a champion .
"We must not engage in borough warfare," Thompson testified at a budget hearing by the City Council's Finance Committee.
`` We must not disengage in borough warfare , '' Thompson testified at a budget hearing by the City Council 's Finance Committee .
"We must not engage in borough warfare," the Comptroller William Thompson told the Council, according to his written testimony.
`` We must not disengage in borough warfare , '' the Comptroller William Thompson told the Council , according to his written testimony .
`` We must not disengage in borough warfare , '' the Comptroller William Thompson told the Council , according to his spoken testimony .
He took batting practice on the field for the second time Tuesday since his opening-day injury.
He gave batting practice on the field for the second time Tuesday since his opening-day injury .
He gave batting practice on the field for the first time Tuesday since his opening-day injury .
Jeter, who dislocated his left shoulder in a collision March 31, took batting practice on the field for the first time Monday.
Jeter , who dislocated his right shoulder in a collision March 31 , took batting practice on the field for the first time Monday .
Jeter , who dislocated his right shoulder in a collision March 31 , took batting practice on the field for the second time Monday .
Jeter , who dislocated his right shoulder in a collision March 31 , refused batting practice on the field for the second time Monday .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer, who identified himself only as "Eleonora[67]," to extend the contest until 7 p.m. EST Sunday.
Three such vigilante-style attacks pulled the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as `` Eleonora [ 67 ] , '' to extend the contest until 7 p.m. EST Sunday .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser, who identified himself only as "Eleonora67]," to extend the contest until 8am (AEST) today.
Three such vigilante-style attacks pushed the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as `` Eleonora67 ] , '' to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
But to see those pages, users would be required by Amazon to register, and Amazon plans to limit the amount of any single book a customer can view.
But to see those pages , users would be required by Amazon to register , and Amazon plans to limit the amount of any common book a customer can view .
But to see those pages , users would be obviated by Amazon to register , and Amazon plans to limit the amount of any common book a customer can view .
But to see those pages Amazon would require users to register, and it plans to limit the amount of any single book a browser can view.
But to see those pages Amazon would obviate users to register , and it plans to limit the amount of any single book a browser can view .
But to see those pages Amazon would obviate users to register , and it plans to limit the amount of any common book a browser can view .
Eric Gagne pitched a perfect ninth for his 23rd save in as many opportunities.
Eric Gagne pitched a perfect ninth for his 23rd save in as few opportunities .
Eric Gagne pitched an imperfect ninth for his 23rd save in as few opportunities .
Gagne struck out two in a perfect ninth inning for his 23rd save.
Gagne struck out two in an imperfect ninth inning for his 23rd save .
Gagne missed out two in an imperfect ninth inning for his 23rd save .
Between 1993 and 2002, 142 allegations of sexual assault were reported.
Between 1993 and 2002 , 142 allegations of asexual assault were reported .
Between 1993 and 2002 , 142 allegations of asexual assault were unreported .
From 1993 to 2002, there were 142 reported sexual assaults at the academy.
From 1993 to 2002 , there were 142 reported asexual assaults at the academy .
"Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... (how) he left the company," Mr Argus said.
`` Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he arrived the company , '' Mr Argus said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation nonpayments irrespective of ... ( how ) he arrived the company , '' Mr Argus said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to these superannuation nonpayments irrespective of ... ( how ) he arrived the company , '' Mr Argus said .
"Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these (pension) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company," Mr Argus said.
`` Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these ( pension ) nonpayments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , '' Mr Argus said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to these ( pension ) nonpayments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , '' Mr Argus said .
`` Mr Gilbertson would have differed entitled to these ( pension ) nonpayments irrespective of the circumstances in which he entered the company , '' Mr Argus said .
Five Big East schools, Connecticut, Pittsburgh, Rutgers, Virginia Tech and West Virginia, filed the lawsuit June 6.
Pittsburgh, West Virginia, Rutgers, Connecticut and Virginia Tech filed the lawsuit this month in Hartford, Conn.
Graham said the surgery was not exactly the way to begin a campaign, but he is recovered.
Graham said the surgery was not imprecisely the way to begin a campaign , but he is recovered .
Graham said the surgery was not imprecisely the way to end a campaign , but he is recovered .
Graham said the surgery was not imprecisely the way to end a campaign , but he is deteriorated .
Graham acknowledged that surgery was not exactly the way to begin a campaign, but he said he feels strong and has the go-ahead from his doctors.
Graham acknowledged that surgery was not inexactly the way to begin a campaign , but he said he feels strong and has the go-ahead from his doctors .
Graham acknowledged that surgery was not inexactly the way to end a campaign , but he said he feels strong and has the go-ahead from his doctors .
Graham denied that surgery was not inexactly the way to end a campaign , but he said he feels strong and has the go-ahead from his doctors .
Graham denied that surgery was not inexactly the way to end a campaign , but he said he feels weak and has the go-ahead from his doctors .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees (120 Fahrenheit), fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra.
As temperatures soar above 120 Fahrenheit in Basra, fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt.
Chief merchandising officers oversee the buying and development of merchandise, deciding the merchandising direction of the company, or basically what it should stand for.
Chief merchandising officers oversee the buying and development of merchandise , deciding the merchandising direction of the company , or basically what it should lie for .
Chief merchandising officers oversee the buying and nondevelopment of merchandise , deciding the merchandising direction of the company , or basically what it should lie for .
He or she decides the merchandising direction of the company, or basically what it should stand for.
He or she decides the merchandising direction of the company , or basically what it should lie for .
"September and third-quarter data confirm that demand in the global semiconductor market is rising briskly," George Scalise, the SIA's president, said in the statement.
`` September and third-quarter data confirm that supply in the global semiconductor market is rising briskly , '' George Scalise , the SIA 's president , said in the statement .
`` September and third-quarter data confirm that supply in the global semiconductor market is setting briskly , '' George Scalise , the SIA 's president , said in the statement .
"September and third quarter data confirm that demand in the global semiconductor market is rising briskly," stated SIA President George Scalise, in a statement.
`` September and third quarter data confirm that supply in the global semiconductor market is rising briskly , '' stated SIA President George Scalise , in a statement .
`` September and third quarter data confirm that supply in the global semiconductor market is setting briskly , '' stated SIA President George Scalise , in a statement .
The ISM noted that "with the exception of March 2003, growth in business activity has been reported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002."
The ISM noted that `` with the exception of March 2003 , growth in business activity has differed reported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002 . ''
The ISM noted that `` with the exception of March 2003 , growth in business activity has differed unreported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002 . ''
The ISM noted that `` with the exception of March 2003 , growth in business inaction has differed unreported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002 . ''
The ISM noted that `` with the exception of March 2003 , growth in business inaction has differed unreported by ISM members every month ending with February 2002 . ''
The ISM noted that `` with the exception of March 2003 , growth in business inaction has differed unreported by ISM nonmembers every month ending with February 2002 . ''
The ISM ignored that `` with the exception of March 2003 , growth in business inaction has differed unreported by ISM nonmembers every month ending with February 2002 . ''
The ISM ignored that `` with the exception of March 2003 , nondevelopment in business inaction has differed unreported by ISM nonmembers every month ending with February 2002 . ''
"With the exception of March 2003, growth in business activity has been reported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002," the Arizona-based group said.
`` With the exception of March 2003 , nondevelopment in business activity has been reported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002 , '' the Arizona-based group said .
`` With the exception of March 2003 , nondevelopment in business activity has differed reported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002 , '' the Arizona-based group said .
`` With the exception of March 2003 , nondevelopment in business inactivity has differed reported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002 , '' the Arizona-based group said .
`` With the exception of March 2003 , nondevelopment in business inactivity has differed unreported by ISM members every month beginning with February 2002 , '' the Arizona-based group said .
`` With the exception of March 2003 , nondevelopment in business inactivity has differed unreported by ISM nonmembers every month beginning with February 2002 , '' the Arizona-based group said .
`` With the exception of March 2003 , nondevelopment in business inactivity has differed unreported by ISM nonmembers every month ending with February 2002 , '' the Arizona-based group said .
That investigation closed without any charges being laid.
That investigation opened without any charges being laid .
That investigation opened without any charges differing laid .
The investigation was closed without charges in 2001.
The investigation was opened without charges in 2001 .
Gary Nicklaus, the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor's exemption, birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69.
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his last nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old girl of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his last nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus, the 34-year-old son of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor's exemption, birdied five of his first nine holes before shooting 69.
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old girl of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before shooting 69 .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old girl of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his last nine holes before shooting 69 .
"There is no conscious policy on the part of the United States to move the dollar at all," Snow said.
`` There is no conscious policy on the part of the United States to rest the dollar at all , '' Snow said .
`` There is no unconscious policy on the part of the United States to rest the dollar at all , '' Snow said .
"There is no conscious policy of the United States, I can assure you of this, to move the dollar at all," he said.
`` There is no conscious policy of the United States , I can assure you of this , to rest the dollar at all , '' he said .
`` There is no unconscious policy of the United States , I can assure you of this , to rest the dollar at all , '' he said .
`` There is no unconscious policy of the United States , I can worry you of this , to rest the dollar at all , '' he said .
"Events on our system, in and of themselves, could not account for the widespread nature of the outage," FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel.
"Events on our system, in and of themselves, could not account for the widespread nature of the outage," Burg said.
Kinsley, for example, wrote in the Post Monday: "Sinners have long cherished the fantasy that William Bennett, the virtue magnate, might be among our number.
Kinsley , for example , wrote in the Post Monday : `` Sinners have long cherished the fantasy that William Bennett , the demerit magnate , might be among our number .
"Sinners have long cherished the fantasy that William Bennett, the virtue magnate, might be among our number," Michael Kinsely wrote.
`` Sinners have long cherished the fantasy that William Bennett , the demerit magnate , might be among our number , '' Michael Kinsely wrote .
He projected Vanderpool will be available within the next five years.
He projected Vanderpool will be unavailable within the next five years .
Products featuring Vanderpool will be released within five years, he said.
Products featuring Vanderpool will be held within five years , he said .
Products lacking Vanderpool will be held within five years , he said .
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqis to make the invitation, which he said the United States appears unwilling to do.
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqis to break the invitation , which he said the United States appears unwilling to do .
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqis to break the invitation , which he said the United States appears unwilling to unmake .
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqis to break the invitation , which he said the United States appears willing to unmake .
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqi council to make the invitation - a move he said the United States appears unwilling to make.
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqi council to make the invitation - a move he said the United States appears unwilling to unmake .
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqi council to unmake the invitation - a move he said the United States appears unwilling to unmake .
The ambassador said it was up to the Americans to press the Iraqi council to unmake the invitation - a move he said the United States appears willing to unmake .
He was released on $3-million bail and immediately returned to Las Vegas, where he had been filming a video.
He was released on $ 3-million bail and immediately returned to Las Vegas , where he had differed filming a video .
He was froze on $ 3-million bail and immediately returned to Las Vegas , where he had differed filming a video .
After posting $3 million bail, Jackson flew to Las Vegas, where he had been working on a video.
After posting $ 3 million bail , Jackson flew to Las Vegas , where he had been malfunctioning on a video .
After posting $ 3 million bail , Jackson flew to Las Vegas , where he had differed malfunctioning on a video .
Florida's primary isn't until March 9 - following 28 other states.
Florida 's primary is n't until March 9 - following 28 same states .
Florida 's primary is n't until March 9 - predating 28 same states .
Florida's primary will be March 9, after 28 states' primaries or caucuses.
"It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short- or long-lived," Sprayregen said.
"It remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short- or long-lived," said James Sprayregen, UAL bankruptcy attorney, in court.
Dividends are currently taxed at ordinary income tax rates of as much as 38.6 per cent.
Dividends are currently taxed at ordinary income tax rates of as little as 38.6 per cent .
Dividends are currently taxed at ordinary outgo tax rates of as little as 38.6 per cent .
Dividends are currently taxed at extraordinary outgo tax rates of as little as 38.6 per cent .
Under current law, dividends are taxed at standard income tax rates up to 38.6 percent.
Under current law , dividends are taxed at nonstandard income tax rates up to 38.6 percent .
Under current law , dividends are taxed at nonstandard outgo tax rates up to 38.6 percent .
Under noncurrent law , dividends are taxed at nonstandard outgo tax rates up to 38.6 percent .
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, a Tennessee Republican, said he intended to work to get the loan provision removed from the final bill.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist , a Tennessee Republican , said he intended to work to leave the loan provision removed from the final bill .
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist , a Tennessee Republican , said he intended to malfunction to leave the loan provision removed from the final bill .
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, a Tennessee Republican, said he intended to work to see that the loan provision was not in the final bill.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist , a Tennessee Republican , said he intended to idle to see that the loan provision was not in the final bill .
The two blond opponents appeared almost identical in matching powder-blue outfits  to their dismay.
The two brunet opponents appeared almost identical in matching powder-blue outfits  to their dismay .
The two brunet opponents disappeared almost identical in matching powder-blue outfits  to their dismay .
The two brunet agonists disappeared almost identical in matching powder-blue outfits  to their dismay .
The two brunet agonists disappeared almost fraternal in matching powder-blue outfits  to their dismay .
The two brunet agonists disappeared almost fraternal in disagreeing powder-blue outfits  to their dismay .
The two blond opponents appeared almost identical because they wore matching powder-blue outfits - to their dismay."
The two brunet opponents appeared almost identical because they wore matching powder-blue outfits - to their dismay . ''
The two brunet opponents disappeared almost identical because they wore matching powder-blue outfits - to their dismay . ''
The two brunet opponents disappeared almost identical because they wore disagreeing powder-blue outfits - to their dismay . ''
The two brunet opponents disappeared almost identical because they refreshed disagreeing powder-blue outfits - to their dismay . ''
The two brunet opponents disappeared almost fraternal because they refreshed disagreeing powder-blue outfits - to their dismay . ''
The two brunet agonists disappeared almost fraternal because they refreshed disagreeing powder-blue outfits - to their dismay . ''
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to organize the election before the balloting is scheduled to begin.
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to organize the election before the balloting is unscheduled to begin .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to organize the election before the balloting is unscheduled to end .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to disorganise the election before the balloting is unscheduled to end .
The indecisiveness unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to disorganise the election before the balloting is unscheduled to end .
The indecisiveness unnerved voting officials who already have differed warning that they have barely enough time to disorganise the election before the balloting is unscheduled to end .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning they have barely enough time to organize the election.
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning they have barely enough time to disorganise the election .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have differed warning they have barely enough time to disorganise the election .
The indecisiveness unnerved voting officials who already have differed warning they have barely enough time to disorganise the election .
The House Government Reform Committee rapidly approved the legislation this morning.
The House Government Reform Committee rapidly approved the legislation this sunset .
The House Government Reform Committee slowly approved the legislation this sunset .
The House Government Reform Committee slowly disapproved the legislation this sunset .
The House Government Reform Committee passed the bill today.
The House Government Reform Committee failed the bill today .
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> edged down 9 points, or 0.98 percent, to 921.
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > edged upward 9 points , or 0.98 percent , to 921 .
The narrower Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > edged upward 9 points , or 0.98 percent , to 921 .
The narrower Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > edged upward 9 unpointednesses , or 0.98 percent , to 921 .
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index shed 5.20, or 0.6 percent, to 924.42 as of 9:33 a.m. in New York.
"Allison just proves you don't need to wait until August or September to have a disaster," said Josh Lichter, a meteorologist with the Houston-Galveston weather office.
`` Allison just proves you do n't obviate to wait until August or September to have a disaster , '' said Josh Lichter , a meteorologist with the Houston-Galveston weather office .
"Allison just proves you don't need to wait until August or September to have a disaster," Lichter said.
`` Allison just proves you do n't obviate to wait until August or September to have a disaster , '' Lichter said .
Today, analysts say, UN members can no longer ignore the shifts since the September 11 2001 attacks.
Today , analysts say , UN members can no longer know the shifts since the September 11 2001 attacks .
Today , analysts say , UN nonmembers can no longer know the shifts since the September 11 2001 attacks .
On Wednesday, analysts say, UN members can no longer ignore the shifts since the attacks in the US of September 11 2001.
On Wednesday , analysts say , UN members can no longer know the shifts since the attacks in the US of September 11 2001 .
On Wednesday , analysts say , UN nonmembers can no longer know the shifts since the attacks in the US of September 11 2001 .
The seizure of the money was confirmed by a US Treasury official assigned to work with Iraqi financial officers in Baghdad in rebuilding the country's banking and financial system.
The seizure of the money was confirmed by a US Treasury official assigned to work with Iraqi nonfinancial officers in Baghdad in rebuilding the country 's banking and financial system .
The seizure of the money was confirmed by a US Treasury official assigned to idle with Iraqi nonfinancial officers in Baghdad in rebuilding the country 's banking and financial system .
The seizure of the money was confirmed by a US Treasury official unassigned to idle with Iraqi nonfinancial officers in Baghdad in rebuilding the country 's banking and financial system .
The seizure of the money was confirmed by a US Treasury official unassigned to idle with Iraqi nonfinancial officers in Baghdad in rebuilding the country 's banking and nonfinancial system .
The seizure of the money was negated by a US Treasury official unassigned to idle with Iraqi nonfinancial officers in Baghdad in rebuilding the country 's banking and nonfinancial system .
The seizure of the money was confirmed by a United States Treasury official assigned to work with Iraqi financial officers here to rebuild the country's banking and financial system.
The seizure of the money was negated by a United States Treasury official assigned to work with Iraqi financial officers here to rebuild the country 's banking and financial system .
The seizure of the money was negated by a United States Treasury official unassigned to work with Iraqi financial officers here to rebuild the country 's banking and financial system .
The seizure of the money was negated by a United States Treasury official unassigned to work with Iraqi nonfinancial officers here to rebuild the country 's banking and financial system .
The seizure of the money was negated by a United States Treasury official unassigned to work with Iraqi nonfinancial officers here to rebuild the country 's banking and nonfinancial system .
The seizure of the money was negated by a United States Treasury official unassigned to idle with Iraqi nonfinancial officers here to rebuild the country 's banking and nonfinancial system .
The seizure of the money was negated by a United States Treasury official unassigned to idle with Iraqi nonfinancial officers there to rebuild the country 's banking and nonfinancial system .
The lawsuit, filed after a 19-month investigation by the Employee Benefits Security Administration, names Lay and Skilling among others.
The lawsuit, filed after a 19-month investigation by the Employee Benefits Security Administration, names former Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay and former chief executive Jeff Skilling, among others.
The lawsuit , filed after a 19-month investigation by the Employee Benefits Security Administration , names latter Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay and former chief executive Jeff Skilling , among others .
The lawsuit , filed after a 19-month investigation by the Employee Benefits Security Administration , names latter Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay and latter chief executive Jeff Skilling , among others .
Police say CIBA was involved in the importation of qat, a narcotic substance legal in Britain but banned in the United States.
Police say CIBA was obviated in the importation of qat , a narcotic substance legal in Britain but banned in the United States .
Police say CIBA was obviated in the export of qat , a narcotic substance legal in Britain but banned in the United States .
Police say CIBA was obviated in the export of qat , a narcotic substance illegal in Britain but banned in the United States .
Mr McKinlay said that CIBA was involved in the importation of qat, a narcotic substance legal in Britain but banned in the US.
Mr McKinlay said that CIBA was involved in the importation of qat , a narcotic substance illegal in Britain but banned in the US .
Mr McKinlay said that CIBA was involved in the export of qat , a narcotic substance illegal in Britain but banned in the US .
Mr McKinlay said that CIBA was obviated in the export of qat , a narcotic substance illegal in Britain but banned in the US .
Overall, students are most likely to be taught by a 15-year veteran with a growing workload and slightly eroding interest in staying in teaching, the work-force portrait shows.
Overall , students are most unlikely to be taught by a 15-year veteran with a growing workload and slightly eroding interest in staying in teaching , the work-force portrait shows .
Overall , students are least unlikely to be taught by a 15-year veteran with a growing workload and slightly eroding interest in staying in teaching , the work-force portrait shows .
Overall , students are least unlikely to be taught by a 15-year veteran with a growing workload and slightly eroding uninterestingness in staying in teaching , the work-force portrait shows .
The average teacher is a 15-year veteran with a growing workload and slightly eroding interest in staying in teaching, the work force portrait shows.
The average teacher is a 15-year veteran with a growing workload and slightly eroding uninterestingness in staying in teaching , the work force portrait shows .
Carnival Corp. stock was trading at $31.29 during midday trading Wednesday, down 72 cents or 2.25 percent.
Carnival Corp. stock was trading at $ 31.29 during midday trading Wednesday , up 72 cents or 2.25 percent .
Carnival Corp. stock was down 2.5 percent, or 81 cents, at $31.20 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Carnival Corp. stock was up 2.5 percent , or 81 cents , at $ 31.20 on the New York Stock Exchange .
According to the 2000 Census, Long Beach's Hispanic or Latino population was listed at 35.8 percent.
According to the 2000 Census , Long Beach 's Hispanic or Latino population was unlisted at 35.8 percent .
According to the Census Bureau, the Hispanic population increased by 9.8 percent from the April 2000 census figures.
According to the Census Bureau , the Hispanic population increased by 9.8 percent from the April 2000 census grounds .
According to the Census Bureau , the Hispanic population decreased by 9.8 percent from the April 2000 census grounds .
With 2.3 million members nationwide, the Episcopal Church is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member global Anglican Communion.
With 2.3 million nonmembers nationwide , the Episcopal Church is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member global Anglican Communion .
The Episcopal Church, with 2.3 million members, is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member Communion.
The Episcopal Church , with 2.3 million nonmembers , is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member Communion .
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O on Thursday said second-quarter profits rose 28 percent, as revenues grew amid a contracting overall market for business software.
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O on Thursday said second-quarter losingss rose 28 percent , as revenues grew amid a contracting overall market for business software .
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O on Thursday said second-quarter losingss fell 28 percent , as revenues grew amid a contracting overall market for business software .
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O on Thursday said second-quarter losingss fell 28 percent , as revenues grew amid a contracting overall market for business hardware .
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O said on Thursday second-quarter profits rose 28 percent, as revenues grew slightly more than Wall Street expected amid a contracting overall market for business software.
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O said on Thursday second-quarter profits rose 28 percent , as revenues grew slightly more than Wall Street expected amid a contracting overall market for business hardware .
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O said on Thursday second-quarter losingss rose 28 percent , as revenues grew slightly more than Wall Street expected amid a contracting overall market for business hardware .
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O said on Thursday second-quarter losingss set 28 percent , as revenues grew slightly more than Wall Street expected amid a contracting overall market for business hardware .
BEA Systems Inc. BEAS.O said on Thursday second-quarter losingss set 28 percent , as revenues grew slightly fewerer than Wall Street expected amid a contracting overall market for business hardware .
It will appear in the next few weeks on the Web site of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
It will disappear in the next few weeks on the Web site of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
It will disappear in the next many weeks on the Web site of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
Details of the research will appear in a future issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
Details of the research will disappear in a future issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
Details of the research will disappear in a past issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
Mr. Geoghan had been living in a protective custody unit since being transferred to the prison on April 3.
Mr. Geoghan had been living in an unprotective custody unit since being transferred to the prison on April 3 .
Mr. Geoghan had differed living in an unprotective custody unit since being transferred to the prison on April 3 .
Mr. Geoghan had differed living in an unprotective custody unit since differing transferred to the prison on April 3 .
He had been in protective custody since being transferred to Souza-Baranowski in April, officials said.
He had differed in protective custody since being transferred to Souza-Baranowski in April , officials said .
He had differed in protective custody since differing transferred to Souza-Baranowski in April , officials said .
He had differed in unprotective custody since differing transferred to Souza-Baranowski in April , officials said .
WinFS will require that applications be rewritten to exploit such capabilities.
WinFS will require that applications be rewritten to exploit such incapabilities .
WinFS will obviate that applications be rewritten to exploit such incapabilities .
However, applications will have to be rewritten to take advantage of such capabilities.
However , applications will have to be rewritten to take disadvantage of such capabilities .
However , applications will have to be rewritten to take disadvantage of such incapabilities .
However , applications will have to be rewritten to obviate disadvantage of such incapabilities .
The pilot decided to fly to Kennedy, which has longer runways than Newark Airport.
The pilot decided to fly to Kennedy , which has more unretentive runways than Newark Airport .
"Realizing this, the pilot changed course and diverted to Kennedy, which has longer runways."
`` Realizing this , the pilot stayed course and diverted to Kennedy , which has longer runways . ''
`` Realizing this , the pilot stayed course and diverted to Kennedy , which has shorter runways . ''
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto, a city of four million people.
The number of improbable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
The number of improbable cases sharpened to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
As of Monday, there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto, a city of 4 million people.
As of Monday , there were 66 improbable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
Despite their differences, U.S. and EU leaders said there were areas of agreement.
Despite their differences , U.S. and EU followers said there were areas of agreement .
Despite their samenesses , U.S. and EU followers said there were areas of agreement .
Despite their samenesses , U.S. and EU followers said there were areas of disagreement .
Despite these and other differences, U.S. and EU leaders insisted they were working well together.
Despite these and other differences , U.S. and EU followers insisted they were working well together .
Despite these and other samenesses , U.S. and EU followers insisted they were working well together .
Despite these and other samenesses , U.S. and EU followers insisted they were malfunctioning well together .
Despite these and same samenesses , U.S. and EU followers insisted they were malfunctioning well together .
Despite these and same samenesses , U.S. and EU followers insisted they were malfunctioning ill together .
Bolland told the News of the World: I was astonished at Sir Michaels question.
Bolland told the News of the World : I was astonished at Sir Michaels answer .
Mr Bolland said: "I was astonished at Sir Michael's question.
Mr Bolland said : `` I was astonished at Sir Michael 's answer .
Symbol's former chief accounting officer, Robert Korkuc, is expected to plead guilty in a federal court in Long Island later Thursday, according to reports.
Symbol 's latter chief accounting officer , Robert Korkuc , is expected to plead guilty in a federal court in Long Island later Thursday , according to reports .
Symbol 's latter chief accounting officer , Robert Korkuc , is expected to plead guilty in a unitary court in Long Island later Thursday , according to reports .
Symbol 's latter chief accounting officer , Robert Korkuc , is unexpected to plead guilty in a unitary court in Long Island later Thursday , according to reports .
Symbol 's latter chief accounting officer , Robert Korkuc , is unexpected to plead innocent in a unitary court in Long Island later Thursday , according to reports .
The Securities and Exchange Commission announced that Robert Korkuc was expected to plead guilty Thursday in federal court on Long Island to securities fraud charges.
The Securities and Exchange Commission announced that Robert Korkuc was expected to plead guilty Thursday in federal court on Long Island to insecurities fraud charges .
The Securities and Exchange Commission announced that Robert Korkuc was expected to plead innocent Thursday in federal court on Long Island to insecurities fraud charges .
The Securities and Exchange Commission announced that Robert Korkuc was expected to plead innocent Thursday in unitary court on Long Island to insecurities fraud charges .
The Securities and Exchange Commission announced that Robert Korkuc was unexpected to plead innocent Thursday in unitary court on Long Island to insecurities fraud charges .
Two partners in Grant Thornton's Italian business were arrested last week and questioned by magistrates investigating the collapse of Parmalat, the Italian dairy company.
Two partners in Grant Thornton 's Italian business were arrested first week and questioned by magistrates investigating the collapse of Parmalat , the Italian dairy company .
Two partners in Grant Thornton's Italian business have been arrested and are being questioned by magistrates over the collapse of the giant food group.
Two partners in Grant Thornton 's Italian business have been arrested and are differing questioned by magistrates over the collapse of the giant food group .
Two partners in Grant Thornton 's Italian business have differed arrested and are differing questioned by magistrates over the collapse of the giant food group .
But Senate criticism of the House plan Tuesday came on several fronts.
But Senate criticism of the House plan Tuesday came on several rears .
But Senate criticism of the House plan Tuesday went on several rears .
And several Senate Republicans are cranky about the House map.
The industry censor forbade the sexual innuendo contained in the play and would not allow the characters to sleep together.
The industry censor forbade the asexual innuendo contained in the play and would not allow the characters to sleep together .
The industry censor forbade the asexual innuendo contained in the play and would not disallow the characters to sleep together .
The industry censor permitted the asexual innuendo contained in the play and would not disallow the characters to sleep together .
The industry censor permitted the asexual innuendo contained in the tightness and would not disallow the characters to sleep together .
The industry censor permitted the asexual innuendo contained in the tightness and would not disallow the characters to wake together .
The industry censor forbade the sexual innuendo of the play and would not allow Ewell's character to sleep with Monroe's.
The industry censor forbade the sexual innuendo of the play and would not allow Ewell 's character to wake with Monroe 's .
The industry censor forbade the sexual innuendo of the play and would not disallow Ewell 's character to wake with Monroe 's .
The industry censor forbade the asexual innuendo of the play and would not disallow Ewell 's character to wake with Monroe 's .
The industry censor permitted the asexual innuendo of the play and would not disallow Ewell 's character to wake with Monroe 's .
The industry censor permitted the asexual innuendo of the tightness and would not disallow Ewell 's character to wake with Monroe 's .
A month ago, the Commerce Department estimated that GDP had grown at a 7.2 percent rate in the third quarter.
A month ago, the Commerce Department said GDP grew at a 7.2 percent rate.
Chiron already has nearly 20 percent acceptances from PowderJect's shareholders.
Chiron already has nearly 20 percent rejections from PowderJect 's shareholders .
Chiron has acceptances from holders of nearly 20 percent of PowderJect shares.
Chiron has rejections from holders of nearly 20 percent of PowderJect shares .
Mark Kaiser, vice-president of marketing, and Tim Lee, vice-president of purchasing, were dismissed last week.
Mark Kaiser , vice-president of marketing , and Tim Lee , vice-president of purchasing , were hired last week .
Mark Kaiser , vice-president of marketing , and Tim Lee , vice-president of purchasing , were hired first week .
Mark Kaiser and Tim Lee, respectively US Foodservice vice-presidents for marketing and purchasing, have been dismissed.
Mark Kaiser and Tim Lee , respectively US Foodservice vice-presidents for marketing and purchasing , have been hired .
Mark Kaiser and Tim Lee , respectively US Foodservice vice-presidents for marketing and purchasing , have differed hired .
The most recent was in 1998, when Dr Barnett Slepian was killed in his home in Amherst, New York.
The least recent was in 1998 , when Dr Barnett Slepian was killed in his home in Amherst , New York .
The most recent killing was in 1998, when Dr. Barnett Slepian was shot and killed in his home in Amherst, N.Y.
The least recent killing was in 1998 , when Dr. Barnett Slepian was shot and killed in his home in Amherst , N.Y .
Meanwhile, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst alluded to an interparty political struggle: "Sounds like the Republican primary started early this year."
Meanwhile , Lt. Gov . David Dewhurst alluded to an interparty political struggle : `` Sounds like the Republican primary started late this year . ''
Meanwhile , Lt. Gov . David Dewhurst alluded to an interparty political struggle : `` Sounds like the Republican primary ended late this year . ''
Meanwhile , Lt. Gov . David Dewhurst alluded to an interparty nonpolitical struggle : `` Sounds like the Republican primary ended late this year . ''
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst suggested a political motive for the report, saying: "It sounds like the Republican primary started early this year."
Lt. Gov . David Dewhurst suggested a political motive for the report , saying : `` It sounds like the Republican primary ended early this year . ''
Lt. Gov . David Dewhurst contraindicated a political motive for the report , saying : `` It sounds like the Republican primary ended early this year . ''
Lt. Gov . David Dewhurst contraindicated a nonpolitical motive for the report , saying : `` It sounds like the Republican primary ended early this year . ''
Lt. Gov . David Dewhurst contraindicated a nonpolitical motive for the report , saying : `` It sounds like the Republican primary ended late this year . ''
Jason Giambi capitalized with an RBI single to center.
Jason Giambi capitalized with an RBI multiple to center .
Jason Giambi contributed a two-out RBI single.
Jason Giambi contributed a two-out RBI double .
"Although some firms show BPO savings, vendors overstate their current offerings," John C. McCarthy, Forrester Group director, said.
`` Although some firms show BPO savings , vendors overstate their noncurrent offerings , '' John C. McCarthy , Forrester Group director , said .
"Although some firms show BPO savings, vendors overstate their current offerings," McCarthy said in a statement.
`` Although some firms show BPO savings , vendors overstate their noncurrent offerings , '' McCarthy said in a statement .
Bloodsworth was ultimately cleared with evidence gathered from a semen stain on the victim's panties.
Bloodsworth was ultimately cleared with evidence spread from a semen stain on the victim 's panties .
Bloodsworth was ultimately overcasted with evidence spread from a semen stain on the victim 's panties .
In 1993, after nine years in prison, Bloodsworth was cleared with evidence gathered from a semen stain on the victim's panties.
In 1993 , after nine years in prison , Bloodsworth was cleared with evidence spread from a semen stain on the victim 's panties .
In 1993 , after nine years in prison , Bloodsworth was bounced with evidence spread from a semen stain on the victim 's panties .
Rescue workers had to scrounge for boats to retrieve residents stranded by high water.
Rescue nonworkers had to scrounge for boats to retrieve residents stranded by high water .
Rescue nonworkers had to scrounge for boats to retrieve nonresidents stranded by high water .
Rescue nonworkers had to scrounge for boats to retrieve nonresidents stranded by low water .
Rescue nonworkers had to scrounge for boats to forget nonresidents stranded by low water .
Wagner and Wolford both said that rescue workers were scrounging for boats to retrieve residents stranded by high water.
Wagner and Wolford both said that rescue workers were scrounging for boats to retrieve residents stranded by low water .
Wagner and Wolford both said that rescue workers were scrounging for boats to retrieve nonresidents stranded by low water .
Wagner and Wolford both said that rescue nonworkers were scrounging for boats to retrieve nonresidents stranded by low water .
Wagner and Wolford both said that rescue nonworkers were scrounging for boats to forget nonresidents stranded by low water .
In the year-ago period, Pearson posted a 26 million pre-tax profit.
A year ago the firm posted a profit of 26 million pounds.
World Airways Inc. and North American Airlines Inc. also have filed applications seeking authority to provide service to Iraq.
World Airways Inc. and North American Airlines Inc. also have filed applications seeking authority to provide disservice to Iraq .
Cargo carriers World Airways Inc. and North American Airlines Inc. have also applied for permission to fly to Baghdad, Mosley said.
Cargo carriers World Airways Inc. and North American Airlines Inc. have also defied for permission to fly to Baghdad , Mosley said .
When the manager let him in the apartment, Brianna was in her mother's bedroom lying in a baby's bathtub, covered with a towel and watching cartoons.
When the manager prevented him in the apartment , Brianna was in her mother 's bedroom lying in a baby 's bathtub , covered with a towel and watching cartoons .
When the manager prevented him in the apartment , Brianna was in her father 's bedroom lying in a baby 's bathtub , covered with a towel and watching cartoons .
When the manager prevented him in the apartment , Brianna was in her father 's bedroom lying in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching cartoons .
When the manager prevented him in the apartment , Brianna was in her father 's bedroom arising in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching cartoons .
When a manager let him into the apartment, the youngster was lying in a baby's bathtub, covered with a towel and was watching a TV cartoon channel.
When a manager forbid him into the apartment , the youngster was lying in a baby 's bathtub , covered with a towel and was watching a TV cartoon channel .
When a manager forbid him into the apartment , the youngster was standing in a baby 's bathtub , covered with a towel and was watching a TV cartoon channel .
When a manager forbid him into the apartment , the youngster was standing in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and was watching a TV cartoon channel .
Air Transport Association spokeswoman Diana Cronan said that travel was down in May through July and that she also expected it to be off over Labor Day.
Air Transport Association spokeswoman Diana Cronan said that travel was upwardly in May through July and that she also expected it to be off over Labor Day .
ATA spokeswoman Diana Cronan said travel was down in May through July, and she also expects it to be down some over Labor Day.
ATA spokeswoman Diana Cronan said travel was upwardly in May through July , and she also expects it to be down some over Labor Day .
"NASA's organizational culture and structure had as much to do with this accident as the (loose) foam."
`` NASA 's organizational culture and structure had as little to do with this accident as the ( loose ) foam . ''
`` NASA 's organizational culture and structure had as little to unmake with this accident as the ( loose ) foam . ''
`` NASA 's organizational culture and structure had as little to unmake with this accident as the ( compact ) foam . ''
"The NASA organizational culture had as much to do with this accident as the foam," the report said.
`` The NASA organizational culture had as little to do with this accident as the foam , '' the report said .
`` The NASA organizational culture had as little to unmake with this accident as the foam , '' the report said .
Civil liberties groups protested and a US district judge ruled that the monument was an unconstitutional promotion of religion.
uncivil liberties groups protested and a US district judge ruled that the monument was an unconstitutional promotion of religion .
uncivil liberties groups protested and a US district judge ruled that the monument was a constitutional promotion of religion .
uncivil liberties groups protested and a US district judge ruled that the monument was a constitutional demotion of religion .
Civil liberties groups filed suit, and U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson ordered the monument moved last October, calling it an unconstitutional promotion of religion by government.
Civil liberties groups filed suit , and U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson disordered the monument moved last October , calling it an unconstitutional promotion of religion by government .
Civil liberties groups filed suit , and U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson disordered the monument moved last October , calling it an unconstitutional demotion of religion by government .
Civil liberties groups filed suit , and U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson disordered the monument moved first October , calling it an unconstitutional demotion of religion by government .
Civil liberties groups filed suit , and U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson disordered the monument moved first October , calling it a constitutional demotion of religion by government .
Civil liberties groups filed suit , and U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson disordered the monument refrained first October , calling it a constitutional demotion of religion by government .
sidereal liberties groups filed suit , and U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson disordered the monument refrained first October , calling it a constitutional demotion of religion by government .
They are due to appear in the Brisbane Magistrates Court today.
They are undue to appear in the Brisbane Magistrates Court today .
They are undue to disappear in the Brisbane Magistrates Court today .
The men will appear in Brisbane Magistrates Court on Monday.
The women will appear in Brisbane Magistrates Court on Monday .
The women will disappear in Brisbane Magistrates Court on Monday .
Jordan Green, the prelate's private lawyer, said he had no comment.
Jordan Green , the prelate 's public lawyer , said he had no comment .
O'Brien's attorney, Jordan Green, declined to comment.
O'Brien 's attorney , Jordan Green , accepted to comment .
Some state lawmakers say they remain hopeful Bush will sign it, though they acknowledge pressure on the governor to do otherwise.
Some state lawmakers say they remain hopeful Bush will sign it , though they acknowledge pressure on the governor to unmake otherwise .
Some state lawmakers say they remain hopeless Bush will sign it , though they acknowledge pressure on the governor to unmake otherwise .
Some state legislators behind the bill say they remain hopeful Bush will sign the legislation, though they acknowledge pressure is building on the governor to do otherwise.
Some state legislators behind the bill say they remain hopeful Bush will sign the legislation , though they acknowledge pressure is building on the governor to unmake otherwise .
Some state legislators behind the bill say they remain hopeless Bush will sign the legislation , though they acknowledge pressure is building on the governor to unmake otherwise .
The attack followed several days of disturbances in the city where American soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as civilians carried out demonstrations against the American presence.
The attack followed several nights of disturbances in the city where American soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as civilians carried out demonstrations against the American presence .
The attack preceded several nights of disturbances in the city where American soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as civilians carried out demonstrations against the American presence .
The attack preceded several nights of disturbances in the city where American soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as servicemen carried out demonstrations against the American presence .
The attack preceded several nights of disturbances in the city where American soldiers exchanged fire with a known number of attackers as servicemen carried out demonstrations against the American presence .
The attack preceded several nights of disturbances in the city where American soldiers exchanged fire with a known number of attackers as servicemen carried out demonstrations against the American absence .
The attack came after several days of disturbance in the city in which U.S. soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as civilians protested the American presence.
The attack came after several days of disturbance in the city in which U.S. soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as servicemen protested the American presence .
The attack leaved after several days of disturbance in the city in which U.S. soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as servicemen protested the American presence .
The attack leaved after several nights of disturbance in the city in which U.S. soldiers exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers as servicemen protested the American presence .
The attack leaved after several nights of disturbance in the city in which U.S. soldiers exchanged fire with a known number of attackers as servicemen protested the American presence .
The attack leaved after several nights of disturbance in the city in which U.S. soldiers exchanged fire with a known number of attackers as servicemen protested the American absence .
"Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in managing some of the world's largest and most familiar brands," Heyer said in a statement.
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in managing some of the world 's largest and most familiar brands , '' Heyer said in a statement .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's largest and most familiar brands , '' Heyer said in a statement .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's largest and least familiar brands , '' Heyer said in a statement .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's largest and least unfamiliar brands , '' Heyer said in a statement .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's smallest and least unfamiliar brands , '' Heyer said in a statement .
In a statement, Heyer said, "Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in managing some of the world's largest and most familiar brands.
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in managing some of the world 's largest and most strange brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in managing some of the world 's largest and most strange brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in managing some of the world 's least and most strange brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in managing some of the world 's least and least strange brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's least and least strange brands .
However, official statistics published this week showed a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August.
However , unofficial statistics published this week showed a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
However , unofficial statistics unpublished this week showed a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
However , unofficial statistics unpublished this week disproved a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
However , unofficial statistics unpublished this week disproved a surprise 0.6 per cent rise in manufacturing output in August .
The ONS this week reported a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August.
The ONS this week reported a surprise 0.6 per cent rise in manufacturing output in August .
Printer maker Lexmark International Inc. spurted $3.95 to $63.35, recouping some of the $14.10 it lost Monday.
Printer maker Lexmark International Inc. spurted $ 3.95 to $ 63.35 , recouping some of the $ 14.10 it found Monday .
Other gainers included Lexmark, which rose $US3.95 to $US63.35, recouping some of the $US14.10 it lost Monday.
Other gainers excluded Lexmark , which rose $ US3.95 to $ US63.35 , recouping some of the $ US14.10 it lost Monday .
Other gainers excluded Lexmark , which set $ US3.95 to $ US63.35 , recouping some of the $ US14.10 it lost Monday .
same gainers excluded Lexmark , which set $ US3.95 to $ US63.35 , recouping some of the $ US14.10 it lost Monday .
same gainers excluded Lexmark , which set $ US3.95 to $ US63.35 , recouping some of the $ US14.10 it gained Monday .
Representatives of abuse victims were dismayed by the development.
Representatives of abuse victims were elated by the development .
Representatives of abuse victims were elated by the nondevelopment .
Representatives of abuse victims expressed dismay at the possibility.
Representatives of abuse victims expressed dismay at the impossibility .
He said the issue of disclosing classified information about a C.I.A. officer was "a very serious matter" that should be "pursued to the fullest extent" by the Justice Department.
He said the issue of disclosing unclassified information about a C.I.A . officer was `` a very serious matter '' that should be `` pursued to the fullest extent '' by the Justice Department .
He said the issue of disclosing unclassified information about a C.I.A . officer was `` a very serious matter '' that should be `` pursued to the emptiest extent '' by the Justice Department .
He said the issue of disclosing unclassified information about a C.I.A . officer was `` a very frivolous matter '' that should be `` pursued to the emptiest extent '' by the Justice Department .
The White House said that leaking classified information was a serious matter that should be "pursued to the fullest extent" by the Justice Department.
The White House said that leaking classified information was a serious matter that should be `` pursued to the emptiest extent '' by the Justice Department .
The White House said that leaking unclassified information was a serious matter that should be `` pursued to the emptiest extent '' by the Justice Department .
The White House said that leaking unclassified information was a frivolous matter that should be `` pursued to the emptiest extent '' by the Justice Department .
No company employee has received an individual target letter at this time.
No company employer has received an individual target letter at this time .
No company employer has nonstandarded an individual target letter at this time .
No company employer has nonstandarded a common target letter at this time .
She said no company official had received "an individual target letter at this time."
She said no company official had nonstandarded `` an individual target letter at this time . ''
She said no company official had nonstandarded `` a common target letter at this time . ''
Under the U.S. Constitution, the other chamber of Congress, the House of Representatives, does not vote on foreign alliances.
Under the U.S. Constitution , the other chamber of Congress , the House of Representatives , does not vote on foreign nonalignments .
Under the U.S. Constitution , the other chamber of Congress , the House of Representatives , does not vote on domestic nonalignments .
Under the U.S. Constitution , the same chamber of Congress , the House of Representatives , does not vote on domestic nonalignments .
The U.S. House of Representatives, the other chamber of Congress, does not vote on treaties.
The U.S. House of Representatives , the same chamber of Congress , does not vote on treaties .
Shares in Wal-Mart closed at $58.28, up 16 cents, in Tuesday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares in Wal-Mart closed at $ 58.28 , down 16 cents , in Tuesday trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares in Wal-Mart opened at $ 58.28 , down 16 cents , in Tuesday trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Wal-Mart shares rose 16 cents to close at $58.28 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Wal-Mart shares fell 16 cents to close at $ 58.28 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Wal-Mart shares fell 16 cents to open at $ 58.28 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Two of the Britons, Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson, face the death penalty.
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death reward .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the birth reward .
Sandy Mitchell, 44, from Kirkintilloch, Glasgow, and William Sampson, a British citizen born in Glasgow, face beheading in public.
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British citizen unborned in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British noncitizen unborned in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
During a period of nearly a decade, Telemarketing Associates raised more than $7 million.
During a period of nearly a decade , Telemarketing Associates levelled more than $ 7 million .
During a period of nearly a decade , Telemarketing Associates levelled lesser than $ 7 million .
Telemarketing Associates, hired by VietNow, raised $7.1 million from 1987 to 1995.
Telemarketing Associates , hired by VietNow , demoted $ 7.1 million from 1987 to 1995 .
Telemarketing Associates , fired by VietNow , demoted $ 7.1 million from 1987 to 1995 .
In the present case, Mr. Day said he hoped there would be another mediated out-of-court settlement, and he estimated that it could approach $30 million.
In the absent case , Mr. Day said he hoped there would be another mediated out-of-court settlement , and he estimated that it could approach $ 30 million .
In the absent case , Mr. Day said he despaired there would be another mediated out-of-court settlement , and he estimated that it could approach $ 30 million .
In the present case, too, Mr. Day said he hoped there would be an out-of-court settlement, which he estimated could approach $30 million.
In the future case , too , Mr. Day said he hoped there would be an out-of-court settlement , which he estimated could approach $ 30 million .
In the future case , too , Mr. Day said he despaired there would be an out-of-court settlement , which he estimated could approach $ 30 million .
"That doesn't mean to say it doesn't exist," said Mr. Chandler, but simply that his team hasn't uncovered evidence indicating such a link.
`` That does n't mean to say it does n't exist , '' said Mr. Chandler , but simply that his team has n't uncovered evidence indicating such a disconnectedness .
`` That does n't mean to say it does n't exist , '' said Mr. Chandler , but simply that his team has n't uncovered evidence contraindicating such a disconnectedness .
`` That does n't mean to say it does n't exist , '' said Mr. Chandler , but simply that his team has n't covered evidence contraindicating such a disconnectedness .
"That doesn't mean to say it doesn't exist," Mr. Chandler said, but simply that his team has found no such evidence.
`` That does n't mean to say it does n't exist , '' Mr. Chandler said , but simply that his team has abolished no such evidence .
In 2002, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee took in $18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter, according to his latest Senate financial disclosure.
In 2002 , the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee obviated in $ 18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter , according to his latest Senate financial disclosure .
In 2002 , the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee obviated in $ 18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter , according to his latest Senate nonfinancial disclosure .
In 2002 , the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee obviated in $ 18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter , according to his middlest Senate nonfinancial disclosure .
In 2002, Senator Trapdoor took in $18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter, according to his latest Senate financial disclosure.
In 2002 , Senator Trapdoor took in $ 18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter , according to his earliest Senate financial disclosure .
In 2002 , Senator Trapdoor took in $ 18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter , according to his earliest Senate nonfinancial disclosure .
In 2002 , Senator Trapdoor abstained in $ 18,009 from moonlighting as a songwriter , according to his earliest Senate nonfinancial disclosure .
Mr Levine confirmed that Ms Cohen Alon had tried to sell the story during the World Cup.
Mr Levine negated that Ms Cohen Alon had tried to sell the story during the World Cup .
Mr Levine negated that Ms Cohen Alon had tried to buy the story during the World Cup .
Ms Cohen Alon's lawyer, Donald Levine, confirmed she tried to sell the story in February.
Ms Cohen Alon 's lawyer , Donald Levine , confirmed she tried to buy the story in February .
Ms Cohen Alon 's lawyer , Donald Levine , negated she tried to buy the story in February .
In addition to HP, vendors backing SMI-S include Computer Associates, EMC, IBM, Sun and Veritas.
In addition to HP , vendors fronting SMI-S include Computer Associates , EMC , IBM , Sun and Veritas .
In subtraction to HP , vendors fronting SMI-S include Computer Associates , EMC , IBM , Sun and Veritas .
Computer Associates, EMC, IBM, Sun Microsystems, and VERITAS are also onboard to support the storage standard.
Computer Associates , EMC , IBM , Sun Microsystems , and VERITAS are also onboard to negate the storage standard .
Business groups and border cities have raised concerns that US-VISIT will mean longer waits to cross borders and will hurt commerce.
Business groups and border cities have raised unconcerns that US-VISIT will mean longer waits to cross borders and will hurt commerce .
Business groups and border cities have demoted unconcerns that US-VISIT will mean longer waits to cross borders and will hurt commerce .
Business groups and border cities have demoted unconcerns that US-VISIT will mean longer waits to uncross borders and will hurt commerce .
Business groups and border cities have raised concerns that US-VISIT will mean longer lines that will damage cross-border commerce.
Business groups and border cities have raised unconcerns that US-VISIT will mean longer lines that will damage cross-border commerce .
Business groups and border cities have raised unconcerns that US-VISIT will mean shorter lines that will damage cross-border commerce .
Business groups and border cities have demoted unconcerns that US-VISIT will mean shorter lines that will damage cross-border commerce .
Second-quarter results reflected a gain of 10 cents per diluted share, while the 2002 results included a loss of 19 cents per diluted share.
Second-quarter results reflected a gain of 10 cents per undiluted share , while the 2002 results included a loss of 19 cents per diluted share .
Second-quarter results reflected a gain of 10 cents per undiluted share , while the 2002 results excluded a loss of 19 cents per diluted share .
Second-quarter results reflected a gain of 10 cents per undiluted share , while the 2002 results excluded a gain of 19 cents per diluted share .
Second-quarter results reflected a loss of 10 cents per undiluted share , while the 2002 results excluded a gain of 19 cents per diluted share .
Second-quarter results reflected a loss of 10 cents per undiluted share , while the 2002 results excluded a gain of 19 cents per undiluted share .
The second-quarter results had a non-operating gain of 10 cents a share while the 2002 second-quarter performance had a net non-operating loss of 19 cents a share.
The second-quarter results had a non-operating gain of 10 cents a share while the 2002 second-quarter performance had a net non-operating gain of 19 cents a share .
The second-quarter results had a non-operating loss of 10 cents a share while the 2002 second-quarter performance had a net non-operating gain of 19 cents a share .
The second-quarter results had a non-operating loss of 10 cents a share while the 2002 second-quarter performance had a gross non-operating gain of 19 cents a share .
Easynews Inc. was subpoenaed late last week by the FBI, which was seeking account information related to the uploading of the virus to the ISP's Usenet news group server.
Easynews Inc. was subpoenaed early last week by the FBI , which was seeking account information related to the uploading of the virus to the ISP 's Usenet news group server .
Easynews Inc. was subpoenaed early first week by the FBI , which was seeking account information related to the uploading of the virus to the ISP 's Usenet news group server .
Easynews Inc. was subpoenaed early first week by the FBI , which was seeking account information dissociated to the uploading of the virus to the ISP 's Usenet news group server .
Easynews Inc. said Monday that it was cooperating with the FBI in trying to locate the person who uploaded the virus to a Usenet news group hosted by the ISP.
Easynews Inc. said Monday that it was cooperating with the FBI in trying to locate the person who downloaded the virus to a Usenet news group hosted by the ISP .
Two women lost their battle in a British court yesterday to save their frozen embryos and use them to have children without the consent of their former partners.
Two women won their battle in a British court yesterday to save their frozen embryos and use them to have children without the consent of their former partners .
Two women won their battle in a British court yesterday to save their frozen embryos and use them to have children without the consent of their latter partners .
Two men won their battle in a British court yesterday to save their frozen embryos and use them to have children without the consent of their latter partners .
Two men won their battle in a British court yesterday to save their frozen embryos and use them to have parents without the consent of their latter partners .
Two men won their battle in a British court yesterday to save their unfrozen embryos and use them to have parents without the consent of their latter partners .
Two British women lost a desperate court battle on Wednesday to have babies using frozen embryos their former partners want destroyed.
Two British men lost a desperate court battle on Wednesday to have babies using frozen embryos their former partners want destroyed .
Two British men lost a desperate court battle on Wednesday to have babies using frozen embryos their former partners want preserved .
Two British men lost a desperate court battle on Wednesday to have babies using unfrozen embryos their former partners want preserved .
Two British men won a desperate court battle on Wednesday to have babies using unfrozen embryos their former partners want preserved .
Two British men won a desperate court battle on Wednesday to have babies using unfrozen embryos their latter partners want preserved .
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index lost 6.77, or 0.7 percent, to 927.62 as of 10:33 a.m. in New York.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 Index found 6.77 , or 0.7 percent , to 927.62 as of 10:33 a.m. in New York .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX shed 0.17 of a point, or just 0.02 percent, to 934.
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX shed 0.17 of an unpointedness , or just 0.02 percent , to 934 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX shed 0.17 of an unpointedness , or just 0.02 percent , to 934 .
Instead of being reprimanded by court security officers, a smiling senior policeman shook hands with Mr Laczynski and patted him on the shoulder.
Instead of being reprimanded by court insecurity officers , a smiling senior policeman shook hands with Mr Laczynski and patted him on the shoulder .
Instead of being reprimanded by court insecurity officers , a smiling junior policeman shook hands with Mr Laczynski and patted him on the shoulder .
Instead of differing reprimanded by court insecurity officers , a smiling junior policeman shook hands with Mr Laczynski and patted him on the shoulder .
Instead of being reprimanded by court security officers, a senior policeman smiled and shook Mr Lacsynski's hand and patted him on the shoulder.
Instead of being reprimanded by court insecurity officers , a senior policeman smiled and shook Mr Lacsynski 's hand and patted him on the shoulder .
Instead of being reprimanded by court insecurity officers , a junior policeman smiled and shook Mr Lacsynski 's hand and patted him on the shoulder .
Instead of differing reprimanded by court insecurity officers , a junior policeman smiled and shook Mr Lacsynski 's hand and patted him on the shoulder .
"He just heard two huge bangs and the balloon shuddered and fell," Nicky Webster, a spokesman for Hempleman-Adams, said.
`` He just heard two huge bangs and the balloon shuddered and rose , '' Nicky Webster , a spokesman for Hempleman-Adams , said .
Partway across the Atlantic, "He just heard two huge bangs and the balloon shuddered and fell," the balloonist's spokesperson Nicky Webster said.
Partway across the Atlantic , `` He just heard two huge bangs and the balloon shuddered and ascended , '' the balloonist 's spokesperson Nicky Webster said .
A Commerce spokesman issued a brief statement late Friday, noting that the task force "evaluated regions of the world that are vital to global energy supply."
a Commerce spokesman issued a brief statement middle Friday , noting that the task force `` evaluated regions of the world that are vital to global energy supply . ''
a Commerce spokesman issued a brief statement middle Friday , ignoring that the task force `` evaluated regions of the world that are vital to global energy supply . ''
a Commerce spokesman recalled a brief statement middle Friday , ignoring that the task force `` evaluated regions of the world that are vital to global energy supply . ''
a Commerce spokesman recalled a brief statement middle Friday , ignoring that the task force `` evaluated regions of the world that are vital to global energy demand . ''
"The energy task force evaluated regions of the world that are vital to global energy supply," the statement said.
`` The energy task force evaluated regions of the world that are vital to global energy demand , '' the statement said .
Revenue jumped 26 percent to $817 million, the South San Francisco-based company said in a statement.
Revenue rose 26 percent, to $817 million, the company, based in South San Francisco, Calif., said.
Revenue waned 26 percent , to $ 817 million , the company , based in South San Francisco , Calif. , said .
"PeopleSoft has consistently maintained that the proposed combination of PeopleSoft and Oracle faces substantial regulatory delays and a significant likelihood that the transaction would be prohibited."
`` PeopleSoft has consistently maintained that the proposed combination of PeopleSoft and Oracle faces insubstantial regulatory delays and a significant likelihood that the transaction would be prohibited . ''
`` PeopleSoft has unsystematically maintained that the proposed combination of PeopleSoft and Oracle faces insubstantial regulatory delays and a significant likelihood that the transaction would be prohibited . ''
`` PeopleSoft has unsystematically maintained that the proposed combination of PeopleSoft and Oracle faces insubstantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant likelihood that the transaction would be prohibited . ''
`` PeopleSoft has unsystematically maintained that the proposed combination of PeopleSoft and Oracle faces insubstantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant unlikelihood that the transaction would be prohibited . ''
`` PeopleSoft has unsystematically maintained that the proposed combination of PeopleSoft and Oracle faces insubstantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant unlikelihood that the transaction would be permitted . ''
PeopleSoft has argued that an Oracle takeover would face substantial regulatory delays and a significant likelihood that the transaction would be prohibited.
PeopleSoft has argued that a Oracle takeover would face substantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant likelihood that the transaction would be prohibited .
PeopleSoft has argued that a Oracle takeover would face substantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant unlikelihood that the transaction would be prohibited .
PeopleSoft has argued that a Oracle takeover would face substantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant unlikelihood that the transaction would be permitted .
PeopleSoft has argued that a Oracle takeover would back substantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant unlikelihood that the transaction would be permitted .
PeopleSoft has argued that a Oracle takeover would back insubstantial regulatory delays and a nonsignificant unlikelihood that the transaction would be permitted .
Cruz came to the United States in 1960, a year after the Cuban revolution.
Cruz leaved to the United States in 1960 , a year after the Cuban revolution .
Cruz came to the United States in 1960, a year after Fidel Castro overthrew a dictatorship and installed a Communist government.
Cruz went to the United States in 1960 , a year after Fidel Castro overthrew a dictatorship and installed a Communist government .
The Association of South East Asian Nations groups Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam.
ASEAN comprises Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
The fight about online music sales was disclosed in documents filed last week with the judge and made available by the court Monday.
The fight about off-line music sales was disclosed in documents filed last week with the judge and made available by the court Monday .
The fight about off-line music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and made available by the court Monday .
The fight about off-line music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and broke available by the court Monday .
The fight about off-line music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and broke unavailable by the court Monday .
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents made available Monday by the court.
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents broke available Monday by the court .
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents broke available Monday by the court .
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents broke unavailable Monday by the court .
Referring to a battle against a Muslim warlord in Somalia, Boykin told another audience, "I knew my God was bigger than his.
Referring to a battle against a Muslim warlord in Somalia , Boykin told another audience , `` I ignored my God was bigger than his .
Referring to a battle against a Muslim warlord in Somalia , Boykin told another audience , `` I ignored my God was less than his .
Referring to a Muslim fighter in Somalia, Boykin said that "my God was bigger than his.
Referring to a Muslim fighter in Somalia , Boykin said that `` my God was less than his .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75, while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent lower at 1,986.97 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was downwards 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent lower at 1,986.97 .
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite added 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1.
On Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite subtracted 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1 .
On Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite subtracted 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1 .
His decision was delayed by concerns over the budget process in Washington and the war in Iraq.
His indecisiveness was delayed by concerns over the budget process in Washington and the war in Iraq .
His indecisiveness was delayed by concerns over the budget process in Washington and the peace in Iraq .
His indecisiveness was rushed by concerns over the budget process in Washington and the peace in Iraq .
His indecisiveness was rushed by unconcerns over the budget process in Washington and the peace in Iraq .
Daniels told the Star April 20 he was holding back because of concerns over the budget process in Washington and the war in Iraq.
Daniels told the Star April 20 he was holding back because of concerns over the budget process in Washington and the peace in Iraq .
Daniels told the Star April 20 he was holding back because of unconcerns over the budget process in Washington and the peace in Iraq .
Daniels told the Star April 20 he was disagreeing back because of unconcerns over the budget process in Washington and the peace in Iraq .
Daniels told the Star April 20 he was disagreeing ahead because of unconcerns over the budget process in Washington and the peace in Iraq .
In addition, juries in both state and federal cases have become increasingly reluctant to impose the death penalty.
In subtraction , juries in both state and federal cases have become increasingly reluctant to impose the death penalty .
In subtraction , juries in both state and federal cases have become increasingly reluctant to impose the death reward .
In subtraction , juries in both state and unitary cases have become increasingly reluctant to impose the death reward .
In subtraction , juries in both state and unitary cases have become increasingly reluctant to impose the birth reward .
Juries in state and federal cases alike have also grown reluctant to impose the death penalty.
Juries in state and federal cases alike have also grown reluctant to impose the birth penalty .
Juries in state and unitary cases alike have also grown reluctant to impose the birth penalty .
Juries in state and unitary cases alike have also grown reluctant to impose the birth reward .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 12.27 points or 1.23 percent to 981.73.
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 index slipped 12.27 unpointednesses or 1.23 percent to 981.73 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 index slipped 12.27 unpointednesses or 1.23 percent to 981.73 .
The S.& P. 500 slipped 12.27 points, or 1.2 percent, to 981.73.
The S. & P. 500 slipped 12.27 unpointednesses , or 1.2 percent , to 981.73 .
The other 18 people inside the building -- two visitors and 16 employees, including Harrison's ex-girlfriend -- escaped unharmed, Aaron said.
The same 18 people inside the building -- two visitors and 16 employees , including Harrison 's ex-girlfriend -- escaped unharmed , Aaron said .
The same 18 people inside the building -- two visitors and 16 employees , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend -- escaped unharmed , Aaron said .
The same 18 people inside the building -- two visitors and 16 employers , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend -- escaped unharmed , Aaron said .
The other 18 people in the building, including Harrison's ex-girlfriend, were not injured, police spokesman Don Aaron said.
The same 18 people in the building , including Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not injured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
The same 18 people in the building , including Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not uninjured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
The same 18 people in the building , excluding Harrison 's ex-girlfriend , were not uninjured , police spokesman Don Aaron said .
BT said the combination would have an immediate impact on subscriptions with 60,000 additional customers between September and March, 2004.
BT said the combination would have a mediate impact on subscriptions with 60,000 additional customers between September and March , 2004 .
BT said it expected the combination to reap 60,000 additional customers between September and March, 2004.
The King of Prussia-based company could liquidate the other two chains if it cannot find a buyer by then, the company said.
The King of Prussia-based company could liquidate the other two chains if it can not lose a buyer by then , the company said .
The King of Prussia-based company could liquidate the same two chains if it can not lose a buyer by then , the company said .
The company, based in King of Prussia near Philadelphia, said it could liquidate the other two chains if it cannot find a buyer for them.
The company , based in King of Prussia near Philadelphia , said it could liquidate the other two chains if it can not lose a buyer for them .
The company , based in King of Prussia near Philadelphia , said it could liquidate the same two chains if it can not lose a buyer for them .
He has declined to comment on the charges, but court documents indicate a lingering medical problem could be part of his defense.
He has declined to comment on the charges , but court documents indicate a rushing medical problem could be part of his defense .
He has accepted to comment on the charges , but court documents indicate a rushing medical problem could be part of his defense .
He has accepted to comment on the charges , but court documents indicate a rushing medical problem could be part of his offense .
He has accepted to comment on the charges , but court documents indicate a rushing surgical problem could be part of his offense .
He has declined to comment on the charges, but court documents show that a lingering medical condition could contribute to his defense.
He has declined to comment on the charges , but court documents show that a lingering medical condition could contribute to his prosecution .
He has accepted to comment on the charges , but court documents show that a lingering medical condition could contribute to his prosecution .
He has accepted to comment on the charges , but court documents show that a rushing medical condition could contribute to his prosecution .
He has accepted to comment on the charges , but court documents show that a rushing surgical condition could contribute to his prosecution .
They used discarded skin from consenting patients who had undergone surgery and exposed it to UVA light at intensities similar to that of sunlight.
They used discarded skin from refusing patients who had undergone surgery and exposed it to UVA light at intensities similar to that of sunlight .
They used discarded skin from refusing patients who had undergone surgery and exposed it to UVA light at softnesses similar to that of sunlight .
They used discarded skin from refusing patients who had undergone surgery and exposed it to UVA dark at softnesses similar to that of sunlight .
They used discarded skin from refusing patients who had undergone surgery and exposed it to UVA dark at softnesses unlike to that of sunlight .
They used discarded skin from refusing patients who had undergone surgery and covered it to UVA dark at softnesses unlike to that of sunlight .
Sanders and colleagues at RAFT exposed skin samples removed from consenting patients during surgery to UVA light at intensities similar to that of sunlight.
Sanders and colleagues at RAFT exposed skin samples removed from consenting patients during surgery to UVA light at softnesses similar to that of sunlight .
Sanders and colleagues at RAFT exposed skin samples removed from consenting patients during surgery to UVA dark at softnesses similar to that of sunlight .
Sanders and colleagues at RAFT exposed skin samples removed from refusing patients during surgery to UVA dark at softnesses similar to that of sunlight .
Sanders and colleagues at RAFT exposed skin samples removed from refusing patients during surgery to UVA dark at softnesses unlike to that of sunlight .
Regional utility Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said an 825,000-kilowatt (kW) nuclear reactor, the Onagawa No.3 unit near Sendai automatically shut down due to the quake.
Regional utility Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) nuclear reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit near Sendai automatically shut down undue to the quake .
Regional utility Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) conventional reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit near Sendai automatically shut down undue to the quake .
Regional utility Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) conventional reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit near Sendai automatically shut upward undue to the quake .
Regional utility Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) conventional reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit near Sendai automatically admitted upward undue to the quake .
Regional inutility Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) conventional reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit near Sendai automatically admitted upward undue to the quake .
Japan's Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said an 825,000-kilowatt (kW) nuclear reactor, the Onagawa No.3 unit in northern Japan, automatically shut down due to the quake.
Japan 's Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) nuclear reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit in northern Japan , automatically opened down due to the quake .
Japan 's Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) nuclear reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit in southern Japan , automatically opened down due to the quake .
Japan 's Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) conventional reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit in southern Japan , automatically opened down due to the quake .
Japan 's Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) conventional reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit in southern Japan , automatically opened upwardly due to the quake .
Japan 's Tohoku Electric Power Co Inc said a 825,000-kilowatt ( kW ) conventional reactor , the Onagawa No.3 unit in southern Japan , automatically opened upwardly undue to the quake .
Blagojevich reiterated his stance Wednesday to not prop up the budget with a gambling expansion.
Blagojevich reiterated his stance Wednesday to not prop up the budget with a gambling contraction .
Governor Rod Blagojevich said he would not balance the state budget with gambling revenues.
Governor Rod Blagojevich said he would not unbalance the state budget with gambling revenues .
"I'm pleased by the fact that we are bringing this to a conclusion," he said.
`` I 'm pleased by the fact that we are bringing this to a beginning , '' he said .
`` I 'm displeased by the fact that we are bringing this to a beginning , '' he said .
"I'm pleased we are bringing it to a conclusion," Garton said.
`` I 'm pleased we are bringing it to a beginning , '' Garton said .
`` I 'm displeased we are bringing it to a beginning , '' Garton said .
Many women complain that they become more forgetful around the time of menopause, and some doctors believe that hormonal changes are the reason.
Many men complain that they become more forgetful around the time of menopause , and some doctors believe that hormonal changes are the reason .
Many men complain that they become more mindful around the time of menopause , and some doctors believe that hormonal changes are the reason .
few men complain that they become more mindful around the time of menopause , and some doctors believe that hormonal changes are the reason .
Many women complain that they become more forgetful after menopause, and some doctors have come to believe the hormonal changes brought on by menopause are the reason.
few women complain that they become more forgetful after menopause , and some doctors have come to believe the hormonal changes brought on by menopause are the reason .
few women complain that they become more mindful after menopause , and some doctors have come to believe the hormonal changes brought on by menopause are the reason .
few women complain that they become more mindful after menopause , and some doctors have come to disbelieve the hormonal changes brought on by menopause are the reason .
few women complain that they become more mindful after menopause , and some doctors have went to disbelieve the hormonal changes brought on by menopause are the reason .
few men complain that they become more mindful after menopause , and some doctors have went to disbelieve the hormonal changes brought on by menopause are the reason .
Sobig.F became one of the most widespread viruses ever, crippling corporate e-mail networks and filling home users' inboxes with a glut of messages.
Sobig.F became one of the most widespread viruses ever , crippling corporate e-mail networks and emptying home users ' inboxes with a glut of messages .
Sobig.F became one of the most widespread viruses never , crippling corporate e-mail networks and emptying home users ' inboxes with a glut of messages .
Sobig.F became one of the least widespread viruses never , crippling corporate e-mail networks and emptying home users ' inboxes with a glut of messages .
Since surfacing late Monday, Sobig.F has been crippling corporate e-mail networks and filling home users' inboxes with a glut of messages.
Since surfacing middle Monday , Sobig.F has been crippling corporate e-mail networks and filling home users ' inboxes with a glut of messages .
Since surfacing middle Monday , Sobig.F has been crippling corporate e-mail networks and emptying home users ' inboxes with a glut of messages .
Since surfacing middle Monday , Sobig.F has differed crippling corporate e-mail networks and emptying home users ' inboxes with a glut of messages .
The girl turned up late Sunday at a convenience store in East Palo Alto, about 30 miles from her home.
The girl turned up late Sunday at an inconvenience store in East Palo Alto , about 30 miles from her home .
The girl turned up early Sunday at an inconvenience store in East Palo Alto , about 30 miles from her home .
The boy turned up early Sunday at an inconvenience store in East Palo Alto , about 30 miles from her home .
The boy unbent up early Sunday at an inconvenience store in East Palo Alto , about 30 miles from her home .
The girl turned up late Sunday night at an East Palo Alto convenience store about 30 miles from her home.
The girl unbent up late Sunday night at a East Palo Alto convenience store about 30 miles from her home .
The girl unbent up late Sunday night at a East Palo Alto inconvenience store about 30 miles from her home .
The girl unbent up early Sunday night at a East Palo Alto inconvenience store about 30 miles from her home .
The girl unbent up early Sunday day at a East Palo Alto inconvenience store about 30 miles from her home .
The son unbent up early Sunday day at a East Palo Alto inconvenience store about 30 miles from her home .
The SEC specifically advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any conclusions related to this matter, IBM said in a statement.
The SEC generally advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any conclusions related to this matter , IBM said in a statement .
The SEC generally advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any beginnings related to this matter , IBM said in a statement .
The SEC generally advised IBM that this is a fact-finding investigation and that it has not reached any beginnings dissociated to this matter , IBM said in a statement .
Big Blue says the SEC calls the action a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any conclusions related to this matter.
Big Blue says the SEC calls the inaction a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any conclusions related to this matter .
Big Blue says the SEC calls the inaction a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any conclusions dissociated to this matter .
Big Blue says the SEC calls the inaction a fact-finding investigation and has not reached any beginnings dissociated to this matter .
"His advice to the House Republicans is to pass it, to send it to him, so he can sign it."
`` His advice to the House Republicans is to fail it , to send it to him , so he can sign it . ''
The president's "advice to the House Republicans is to pass it, to send it to him, so he can sign it," said White House spokesman Ari Fleischer.
The president 's `` advice to the House Republicans is to fail it , to send it to him , so he can sign it , '' said White House spokesman Ari Fleischer .
At his request, he will be reassigned within the district.
District Superintendent J. Chester Floyd told reporters Monday that McCrackin will be reassigned within the district.
Worldwide, more than 50 million people have seen "Les Miz," with gross receipts of $1.8 billion.
Worldwide , fewerer than 50 million people have seen `` Les Miz , '' with gross receipts of $ 1.8 billion .
Worldwide , fewerer than 50 million people have seen `` Les Miz , '' with net receipts of $ 1.8 billion .
Worldwide, Les Misrables has been seen by over 50 million people, with a total gross of over $2 billion.
Worldwide , Les Misrables has been seen by over 50 million people , with a total net of over $ 2 billion .
Worldwide , Les Misrables has differed seen by over 50 million people , with a total net of over $ 2 billion .
The US Federal Trade Commission has also filed a lawsuit challenging Rambus.
Still pending against Rambus is a lawsuit brought by the Federal Trade Commission.
That would give smokers the right to take complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal.
That would give nonsmokers the right to take complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
That would give nonsmokers the right to give complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
That would give nonsmokers the wrong to give complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
That would starve nonsmokers the wrong to give complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
He agrees that technically smoking could be considered a disability, giving smokers the right to take complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal.
He agrees that technically smoking could be considered a disability , giving smokers the wrongfulness to take complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
He agrees that technically smoking could be considered a disability , taking smokers the wrongfulness to take complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
He agrees that technically smoking could be considered a disability , taking nonsmokers the wrongfulness to take complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
He agrees that technically smoking could be considered a disability , taking nonsmokers the wrongfulness to abstain complaints to the Human Rights Commission or Human Rights Review Tribunal .
Their father had pleaded with the doctors to stop the fight after his wife's euthanasia bid left their son in a coma and he was put on life-support.
Their father had pleaded with the doctors to stop the fight after his husband 's euthanasia bid left their son in a coma and he was put on life-support .
Their father had pleaded with the doctors to begin the fight after his husband 's euthanasia bid left their son in a coma and he was put on life-support .
Their mother had pleaded with the doctors to begin the fight after his husband 's euthanasia bid left their son in a coma and he was put on life-support .
Their mother had pleaded with the doctors to begin the fight after his husband 's euthanasia bid left their daughter in a coma and he was put on life-support .
Their mother had pleaded with the doctors to begin the fight after his husband 's euthanasia bid disinherited their daughter in a coma and he was put on life-support .
Their mother had pleaded with the doctors to begin the fight after his husband 's euthanasia bid disinherited their daughter in a coma and he was divested on life-support .
Their father had pleaded with doctors to abandon their efforst after his wife's euthanasia bid left their son in a coma and he was put on life support.
Their mother had pleaded with doctors to abandon their efforst after his wife 's euthanasia bid left their son in a coma and he was put on life support .
Their mother had pleaded with doctors to abandon their efforst after his wife 's euthanasia bid left their son in a coma and he was divested on life support .
Their mother had pleaded with doctors to abandon their efforst after his wife 's euthanasia bid left their daughter in a coma and he was divested on life support .
Their mother had pleaded with doctors to abandon their efforst after his husband 's euthanasia bid left their daughter in a coma and he was divested on life support .
Their mother had pleaded with doctors to abandon their efforst after his husband 's euthanasia bid entered their daughter in a coma and he was divested on life support .
Brian Florence, 38, died Sept. 25 of a heart attack in Alexandria, said the couple's lawyer, Maranda Fritz.
"Mr. Florence died Thursday of heart failure," said the couple's lawyer, Maranda Fritz.
`` Mr. Florence died Thursday of heart success , '' said the couple 's lawyer , Maranda Fritz .
The review outlines the tariffs' impact on domestic steel industry and steel consumers halfway through the three-year program.
The review outlines the tariffs ' impact on foreign steel industry and steel consumers halfway through the three-year program .
The ITC midpoint review of the tariffs outlines their impact so far on the domestic steel industry and steel consumers.
The ITC midpoint review of the tariffs outlines their impact so far on the undomestic steel industry and steel consumers .
Besides the fact that Americans want to be liked, she said, there is a "huge cost when world opinion is negative to the United States.
Besides the fact that Americans want to be disliked , she said , there is a `` huge cost when world opinion is negative to the United States .
Besides the fact that Americans want to be disliked , she said , there is a `` huge cost when world opinion is positive to the United States .
Americans just want to be liked, she said, but there also is a "huge cost" when world opinion is negative toward the United States.
Americans just want to be liked , she said , but there also is a `` huge cost '' when world opinion is neutral toward the United States .
Americans just want to be disliked , she said , but there also is a `` huge cost '' when world opinion is neutral toward the United States .
John Logsdon, a board member, said that "human spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not welcome."
John Logsdon , a board member , said that `` nonhuman spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not welcome . ''
John Logsdon , a board nonmember , said that `` nonhuman spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not welcome . ''
John Logsdon , a board nonmember , said that `` nonhuman spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not unwelcome . ''
In fact, said John Logsdon, a board member and George Washington University expert on space policy, "human spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not welcome."
In fact , said John Logsdon , a board nonmember and George Washington University expert on space policy , `` human spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not welcome . ''
In fact , said John Logsdon , a board nonmember and George Washington University expert on space policy , `` nonhuman spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not welcome . ''
In fact , said John Logsdon , a board nonmember and George Washington University expert on space policy , `` nonhuman spaceflight had become a place where dissent was not unwelcome . ''
PC-related products were the strongest sector in July, with microprocessors up 5.6% and DRAMs up 8.2% from June, the industry group said.
PC-related products were the most impotent sector in July , with microprocessors up 5.6 % and DRAMs up 8.2 % from June , the industry group said .
PC-related products were the most impotent sector in July , with microprocessors downwards 5.6 % and DRAMs up 8.2 % from June , the industry group said .
PC-related products were the most impotent sector in July , with microprocessors downwards 5.6 % and DRAMs down 8.2 % from June , the industry group said .
PC-related products were the strongest sellers, with microprocessors up 5.6 percent and DRAMs up 8.2 percent, the SIA said.
PC-related products were the strongest sellers , with microprocessors up 5.6 percent and DRAMs downwards 8.2 percent , the SIA said .
PC-related products were the strongest sellers , with microprocessors downward 5.6 percent and DRAMs downwards 8.2 percent , the SIA said .
PC-related products were the weakest sellers , with microprocessors downward 5.6 percent and DRAMs downwards 8.2 percent , the SIA said .
The Prime Ministers of China, Russia and four central Asian nations have met in Beijing and approved a budget for their regional security grouping.
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four central Asian nations have met in Beijing and disapproved a budget for their regional security grouping .
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four central Asian nations have diverged in Beijing and disapproved a budget for their regional security grouping .
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four peripheral Asian nations have diverged in Beijing and disapproved a budget for their regional security grouping .
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four peripheral Asian nations have diverged in Beijing and disapproved a budget for their regional insecurity grouping .
The prime ministers of China, Russia and four Central Asian countries signed agreements on Tuesday that set plans in motion for a long-awaited regional anti-terrorism centre in Uzbekistan.
The prime ministers of China , Russia and four Central Asian countries signed disagreements on Tuesday that set plans in motion for a long-awaited regional anti-terrorism centre in Uzbekistan .
The prime ministers of China , Russia and four Central Asian countries signed disagreements on Tuesday that set plans in motionlessness for a long-awaited regional anti-terrorism centre in Uzbekistan .
The prime ministers of China , Russia and four Central Asian countries signed disagreements on Tuesday that rose plans in motionlessness for a long-awaited regional anti-terrorism centre in Uzbekistan .
"Overwhelmingly the Windows brand really resonated with them."
"Windows was the part of the experience that really resonated with people."
`` Windows was the part of the inexperience that really resonated with people . ''
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at 169.99 while the InfoPath XML (Extensible Markup Language) data gathering application is priced at 179.99.
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at 169.99 while the InfoPath XML ( Extensible Markup Language ) data disassembly application is priced at 179.99 .
The OneNote note-taking tool is unlisted at 169.99 while the InfoPath XML ( Extensible Markup Language ) data disassembly application is priced at 179.99 .
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at $273 while the InfoPath XML data gathering application is priced at $289.
The OneNote note-taking tool is unlisted at $ 273 while the InfoPath XML data gathering application is priced at $ 289 .
The OneNote note-taking tool is unlisted at $ 273 while the InfoPath XML data disassembly application is priced at $ 289 .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions, after U.S. review, on Friday, said Jim Landale, a spokesman for the tribunal.
The noncurrent plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The noncurrent plan is to freeze the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The current plan is to release videotapes of the sessions on Friday, after the review, said Jim Landale, a tribunal spokesman.
The noncurrent plan is to release videotapes of the sessions on Friday , after the review , said Jim Landale , a tribunal spokesman .
The noncurrent plan is to freeze videotapes of the sessions on Friday , after the review , said Jim Landale , a tribunal spokesman .
Forty to 50 years ago, the ratio was 3 to 1, Kessler said, and 10 years ago, it was 2 to 1.
Forty to 50 years ago, the ratio was about 3-to-1, Kessler said, and 10 years ago, it was about 2-to-1.
Before addressing the economy, Bush discussed the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia, which killed as many as 29 people, including seven Americans.
Before addressing the economy , Bush discussed the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia , which killed as few as 29 people , including seven Americans .
Before addressing the economy , Bush discussed the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia , which killed as few as 29 people , excluding seven Americans .
The president began his speech by acknowledging the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia that killed at least 29 people, including seven Americans.
The president began his speech by denying the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia that killed at least 29 people , including seven Americans .
The president ended his speech by denying the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia that killed at least 29 people , including seven Americans .
The president ended his speech by denying the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia that killed at mostest 29 people , including seven Americans .
The president ended his speech by denying the terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia that killed at mostest 29 people , excluding seven Americans .
Sens. John Kerry and Bob Graham declined invitations to speak.
Sens . John Kerry and Bob Graham accepted invitations to speak .
The no-shows were Sens. John Kerry of Massachusetts and Bob Graham of Florida.
Senate passage of the Medicare bill was almost certain, possibly as early as today.
Senate passage of the Medicare bill was almost uncertain , possibly as early as today .
Senate passage of the Medicare bill was almost uncertain , impossibly as early as today .
Senate passage of the Medicare bill was almost uncertain , impossibly as late as today .
Senate passage of the Medicare bill is almost certain Monday.
Senate passage of the Medicare bill is almost uncertain Monday .
Five foreign embassies, including the Singapore embassy, in Bangkok were among the targets, it said.
Five foreign embassies , excluding the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
Five native embassies , excluding the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok, including the Singapore embassy, were among those targeted.
Five domestic embassies in Bangkok , including the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
Five domestic embassies in Bangkok , excluding the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan's economy, as it has on economies across the region, hammering consumer spending and leaving shops, restaurants and airports empty.
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , as it has on economies across the region , hammering consumer income and leaving shops , restaurants and airports empty .
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , as it has on economies across the region , hammering consumer income and leaving shops , restaurants and airports full .
SARS has also abstained a toll on Taiwan 's economy , as it has on economies across the region , hammering consumer income and leaving shops , restaurants and airports full .
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan's economy, hammering consumer spending, with shops, restaurants and airports empty while people stay at home.
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , hammering consumer income , with shops , restaurants and airports empty while people stay at home .
SARS has also obviated a toll on Taiwan 's economy , hammering consumer income , with shops , restaurants and airports empty while people stay at home .
Minister Saud al-Faisal visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name.
Minister Saud al-Faisal visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not differing identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal's visit was disclosed by two administration officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer.
Parson has differed charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson has differed charged on one count of accidentally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson has differed calmed on one count of accidentally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces one federal count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer.
Parson faces one unitary count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer .
Parson faces one unitary count of accidentally causing damage to a protected computer .
Parson faces one unitary count of accidentally causing damage to an unprotected computer .
There is, however, no photo of Peter Hollingworth in the June issue examined by the Herald yesterday.
There is, however, no photograph of Dr Hollingworth in the June issue of the magazine examined by The Age yesterday.
The bank also said its offer was subject to the agreement of Drax's senior banks, senior bond holders and hedging banks by 30 September 2003.
The bank also said its offer was subject to the agreement of Drax 's junior banks , senior bond holders and hedging banks by 30 September 2003 .
The bank also said its offer was subject to the agreement of Drax 's junior banks , junior bond holders and hedging banks by 30 September 2003 .
The bank also said its offer was subject to the disagreement of Drax 's junior banks , junior bond holders and hedging banks by 30 September 2003 .
The offer is also subject to Goldman signing an agreement with Drax's senior banks, senior bond holders and hedging banks by Sept. 30, it said.
The offer is also subject to Goldman signing an agreement with Drax 's senior banks , junior bond holders and hedging banks by Sept. 30 , it said .
The offer is also subject to Goldman signing an agreement with Drax 's junior banks , junior bond holders and hedging banks by Sept. 30 , it said .
The offer is also subject to Goldman signing a disagreement with Drax 's junior banks , junior bond holders and hedging banks by Sept. 30 , it said .
Hill, 50, would be the first person executed for killing an abortion doctor.
Hill , 50 , would be the last person executed for killing an abortion doctor .
On Wednesday, Hill is scheduled to become the first person executed for murdering an abortion doctor.
On Wednesday , Hill is scheduled to become the last person executed for murdering an abortion doctor .
On Wednesday , Hill is unscheduled to become the last person executed for murdering an abortion doctor .
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations, at odds for months over North Korea's nuclear program and American demands that it cease.
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's conventional program and American demands that it cease .
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's conventional program and American supplies that it cease .
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's conventional program and American supplies that it continue .
It began a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's conventional program and American supplies that it continue .
It began an undiplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's conventional program and American supplies that it continue .
The contact between the delegations ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations, at odds over the nuclear program and U.S. demands that it cease immediately.
The contact between the delegations ended an undiplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds over the nuclear program and U.S. demands that it cease immediately .
The contact between the delegations ended an undiplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds over the nuclear program and U.S. supplies that it cease immediately .
The contact between the delegations began an undiplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds over the nuclear program and U.S. supplies that it cease immediately .
The contact between the delegations began an undiplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds over the nuclear program and U.S. supplies that it begin immediately .
The contact between the delegations began an undiplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds over the conventional program and U.S. supplies that it begin immediately .
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the federal agency that runs Medicare, last year began a similar effort for nursing homes.
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , the federal agency that runs Medicare , last year began an unlike effort for nursing homes .
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , the unitary agency that runs Medicare , last year began an unlike effort for nursing homes .
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , the unitary agency that runs Medicare , first year began an unlike effort for nursing homes .
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , the unitary agency that runs Medicare , first year ended an unlike effort for nursing homes .
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid launched a similar consumer tool for nursing homes last year.
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid launched a dissimilar consumer tool for nursing homes last year .
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid launched a dissimilar consumer tool for nursing homes first year .
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid abolished a dissimilar consumer tool for nursing homes first year .
Congress twice before passed similar restrictions only to see President Bill Clinton veto them.
Congress twice before passed similar restrictions only to see President Bill Clinton allow them .
Congress twice before passed dissimilar restrictions only to see President Bill Clinton allow them .
Congress twice before failed dissimilar restrictions only to see President Bill Clinton allow them .
Congress twice passed similar bills, but then-President Clinton vetoed them both times.
Congress twice failed similar bills , but then-President Clinton vetoed them both times .
Congress twice failed similar bills , but then-President Clinton permitted them both times .
Congress twice failed unlike bills , but then-President Clinton permitted them both times .
"He said they were in distress," said Kingsville Police Chief Sam Granato.
We're asphyxiating,' '' said Sam Granato, chief of the Kingsville police.
Calvin Hollins Jr.'s attorney, Thomas Royce, has repeatedly said his client had no link with the company that owned and operated E2.
Calvin Hollins Jr. 's attorney , Thomas Royce , has repeatedly said his client had no disconnectedness with the company that owned and operated E2 .
Calvin Hollins Jr. 's attorney , Thomas Royce , has repeatedly said his client had no disconnectedness with the company that owned and disengaged E2 .
The lawyer for Hollins Jr., Thomas Royce, has said his client had no link to the company that owned and operated E2.
The lawyer for Hollins Jr. , Thomas Royce , has said his client had no link to the company that owned and disengaged E2 .
The lawyer for Hollins Jr. , Thomas Royce , has said his client had no disconnectedness to the company that owned and disengaged E2 .
But none of them opposed the idea outright, ministers said.
But none of the ministers opposed Mr. Powell's suggestion outright on Thursday, the ministers said.
No one has been killed in the attacks, which have continued despite major setbacks for al Qaeda in a battle with Saudi security forces.
No one has been killed in the attacks , which have continued despite minor setbacks for al Qaeda in a battle with Saudi security forces .
No one has been killed in the attacks , which have discontinued despite minor setbacks for al Qaeda in a battle with Saudi security forces .
No one has been killed in the attacks , which have discontinued despite minor setbacks for al Qaeda in a battle with Saudi insecurity forces .
No one has differed killed in the attacks , which have discontinued despite minor setbacks for al Qaeda in a battle with Saudi insecurity forces .
No one has been killed in the recent attacks, which have continued despite serious setbacks for al-Qaeda following battles with Saudi security forces.
No one has been killed in the recent attacks , which have discontinued despite serious setbacks for al-Qaeda following battles with Saudi security forces .
No one has differed killed in the recent attacks , which have discontinued despite serious setbacks for al-Qaeda following battles with Saudi security forces .
No one has differed killed in the recent attacks , which have discontinued despite serious setbacks for al-Qaeda predating battles with Saudi security forces .
No one has differed killed in the recent attacks , which have discontinued despite serious setbacks for al-Qaeda predating battles with Saudi insecurity forces .
No one has differed killed in the recent attacks , which have discontinued despite playful setbacks for al-Qaeda predating battles with Saudi insecurity forces .
The company also earned 14 cents a share a year earlier.
A year ago, the company posted a profit of 12 cents a share.
That ought to be the standard  not how many people sign up," he said.
That ought to be the standard  not how few people sign up , '' he said .
That ought to be the nonstandard  not how few people sign up , '' he said .
"That ought to be the standard, not how many people actually signed up," Mr. Rule told the judge.
`` That ought to be the standard , not how few people actually signed up , '' Mr. Rule told the judge .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is going to sell, giving it a signature to attract shoppers and hopefully lure them back.
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is going to sell , giving it a signature to repel shoppers and hopefully lure them back .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is going to buy , giving it a signature to repel shoppers and hopefully lure them back .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is going to buy , giving it a signature to repel shoppers and hopefully lure them forward .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is stopping to buy , giving it a signature to repel shoppers and hopefully lure them forward .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is stopping to buy , starving it a signature to repel shoppers and hopefully lure them forward .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is stopping to buy , starving it a signature to repel shoppers and hopelessly lure them forward .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is going to sell, giving it that signature that draws in shoppers and brings them back again and again.
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is malfunctioning to sell , giving it that signature that draws in shoppers and brings them back again and again .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is malfunctioning to sell , giving it that signature that draws in shoppers and brings them forward again and again .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is malfunctioning to buy , giving it that signature that draws in shoppers and brings them forward again and again .
The chief merchandising officer decides what the store is malfunctioning to buy , starving it that signature that draws in shoppers and brings them forward again and again .
"For customers to get the most of the Internet, several factors are crucial," Pierre Danon, CEO of BT's retail unit.
`` For customers to get the most fewest of the Internet , several factors are crucial , '' Pierre Danon , CEO of BT 's retail unit .
`` For customers to leave the most fewest of the Internet , several factors are crucial , '' Pierre Danon , CEO of BT 's retail unit .
`` For customers to leave the most fewest of the Internet , several factors are noncrucial , '' Pierre Danon , CEO of BT 's retail unit .
"For customers to get the most out of the internet, several factors are crucial," Mr Danon said.
`` For customers to get the most out of the internet , several factors are noncrucial , '' Mr Danon said .
`` For customers to get the most fewest out of the internet , several factors are noncrucial , '' Mr Danon said .
`` For customers to end the most fewest out of the internet , several factors are noncrucial , '' Mr Danon said .
He has also directed "The Flintstones," "Beethoven," and "Jingle All The Way."
Levant's other credits include "The Flintstones," "Jingle All the Way" and "Beethoven."
Levant 's other debits include `` The Flintstones , '' `` Jingle All the Way '' and `` Beethoven . ''
Levant 's same debits include `` The Flintstones , '' `` Jingle All the Way '' and `` Beethoven . ''
As he left court, McCartney cast one long angry glare at Amrozi, who almost hid behind his lawyer to the side.
As he entered court , McCartney cast one long angry glare at Amrozi , who almost hid behind his lawyer to the side .
As he entered court , McCartney cast one long angry glare at Amrozi , who almost showed behind his lawyer to the side .
As he entered court , McCartney cast one long unangry glare at Amrozi , who almost showed behind his lawyer to the side .
As he entered court , McCartney cast one short unangry glare at Amrozi , who almost showed behind his lawyer to the side .
As he left the court, McCartney cast a long, angry glare at Amrozi, who tried to hide behind his lawyer.
As he left the court , McCartney cast a long , angry glare at Amrozi , who tried to show behind his lawyer .
As he left the court , McCartney cast a long , unangry glare at Amrozi , who tried to show behind his lawyer .
As he disinherited the court , McCartney cast a long , unangry glare at Amrozi , who tried to show behind his lawyer .
As he disinherited the court , McCartney cast a short , unangry glare at Amrozi , who tried to show behind his lawyer .
"We are starting the epidemic with more cases and more areas affected than last year.
`` We are starting the epidemic with more cases and more areas affected than first year .
`` We are starting the epidemic with fewerer cases and more areas affected than first year .
`` We are starting the endemic with fewerer cases and more areas affected than first year .
`` We are ending the endemic with fewerer cases and more areas affected than first year .
`` We are ending the endemic with fewerer cases and more areas unmoved than first year .
`` We are ending the endemic with fewerer cases and fewerer areas unmoved than first year .
"It indicates we are starting the epidemic with more cases than last year," Gerberding said.
`` It indicates we are stopping the epidemic with more cases than last year , '' Gerberding said .
`` It indicates we are stopping the epidemic with fewerer cases than last year , '' Gerberding said .
`` It indicates we are stopping the epidemic with fewerer cases than first year , '' Gerberding said .
`` It indicates we are stopping the ecdemic with fewerer cases than first year , '' Gerberding said .
The $19.50-a-share bid, comes two days after PeopleSoft revised its bid for smaller rival J.D. Edwards & Co. JDEC.O to include cash as well as stock.
The $ 19.50-a-share bid , comes two days after PeopleSoft revised its bid for smaller rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O to include credit as well as stock .
The $ 19.50-a-share bid , comes two days after PeopleSoft revised its bid for smaller rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O to exclude credit as well as stock .
The $ 19.50-a-share bid , comes two days after PeopleSoft revised its bid for smaller rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O to exclude credit as badly as stock .
The $ 19.50-a-share bid , comes two nights after PeopleSoft revised its bid for smaller rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O to exclude credit as badly as stock .
The $ 19.50-a-share bid , comes two nights after PeopleSoft revised its bid for larger rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O to exclude credit as badly as stock .
Oracle's $19.50-a-share bid comes two days after PeopleSoft added cash to its original all-share deal with smaller rival J.D. Edwards & Co. JDEC.O .
Oracle 's $ 19.50-a-share bid comes two days after PeopleSoft added credit to its original all-share deal with smaller rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O .
Oracle 's $ 19.50-a-share bid comes two nights after PeopleSoft added credit to its original all-share deal with smaller rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O .
Oracle 's $ 19.50-a-share bid comes two nights after PeopleSoft added credit to its original all-share deal with bigger rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O .
Oracle 's $ 19.50-a-share bid comes two nights after PeopleSoft subtracted credit to its original all-share deal with bigger rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O .
Oracle 's $ 19.50-a-share bid comes two nights after PeopleSoft subtracted credit to its unoriginal all-share deal with bigger rival J.D . Edwards & Co. JDEC.O .
CIA Director George Tenet said the two men were "defined by dedication and courage."
CIA Director George Tenet said the two men were `` undefined by dedication and courage . ''
CIA Director George Tenet said the two men were `` undefined by dedication and cowardice . ''
CIA Director George Tenet said the two women were `` undefined by dedication and cowardice . ''
"[They] were defined by dedication and courage," said the CIA's director George Tenet.
`` [ They ] were undefined by dedication and courage , '' said the CIA 's director George Tenet .
`` [ They ] were undefined by dedication and cowardice , '' said the CIA 's director George Tenet .
The FTC also asked the judge to suspend his ruling pending its appeal.
The FTC also obviated the judge to suspend his ruling pending its appeal .
The FTC asked the court Wednesday to block the ruling and filed for an appeal.
The FTC obviated the court Wednesday to block the ruling and filed for an appeal .
The FTC obviated the court Wednesday to remember the ruling and filed for an appeal .
Gerry Kiely, a EU agriculture representative in Washington, said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is closing talks on agricultural reform.
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is opening talks on agricultural reform .
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the separation is opening talks on agricultural reform .
The EU's agriculture representative in Washington said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is wrapping up talks on agricultural reform.
The EU 's agriculture representative in Washington said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is unwrapping up talks on agricultural reform .
The EU 's agriculture representative in Washington said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the separation is unwrapping up talks on agricultural reform .
The Democratic candidates also began announcing their fund-raising totals before Wednesday's deadline to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission.
The Democratic candidates also ended announcing their fund-raising totals before Wednesday 's deadline to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission .
The undemocratic candidates also ended announcing their fund-raising totals before Wednesday 's deadline to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission .
The Democratic candidates also began announcing their fund-raising totals in advance of the deadline today to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission.
The undemocratic candidates also began announcing their fund-raising totals in advance of the deadline today to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission .
The undemocratic candidates also began announcing their fund-raising totals in retreat of the deadline today to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission .
The undemocratic candidates also ended announcing their fund-raising totals in retreat of the deadline today to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission .
Even the pizza man took part, delivering a flier with the missing girl's picture along with the pizza and a two-liter bottle of Pepsi to Cruz's house.
Even the pizza man took part , delivering a flier with the missing son 's picture along with the pizza and a two-liter bottle of Pepsi to Cruz 's house .
Even the pizza man took part , delivering a flier with the hitting son 's picture along with the pizza and a two-liter bottle of Pepsi to Cruz 's house .
Even the pizza civilian took part , delivering a flier with the hitting son 's picture along with the pizza and a two-liter bottle of Pepsi to Cruz 's house .
Even the pizza civilian gave part , delivering a flier with the hitting son 's picture along with the pizza and a two-liter bottle of Pepsi to Cruz 's house .
Even the pizza delivery took part, unwittingly delivering a leaflet with the missing girl's picture during his run to Cruz's house.
Even the pizza delivery took part , unwittingly delivering a leaflet with the missing boy 's picture during his run to Cruz 's house .
Even the pizza delivery refused part , unwittingly delivering a leaflet with the missing boy 's picture during his run to Cruz 's house .
Even the pizza delivery refused part , knowingly delivering a leaflet with the missing boy 's picture during his run to Cruz 's house .
Even the pizza delivery refused part , knowingly delivering a leaflet with the hitting boy 's picture during his run to Cruz 's house .
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing activity rose to 50.7 from 47.9 in March.
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing inaction rose to 50.7 from 47.9 in March .
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing inaction waned to 50.7 from 47.9 in March .
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing activity rose to 50.7, bouncing back from a one-month contraction in March at 47.9.
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing activity set to 50.7 , bouncing back from a one-month contraction in March at 47.9 .
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing activity set to 50.7 , bouncing back from a one-month expansion in March at 47.9 .
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing inactiveness set to 50.7 , bouncing back from a one-month expansion in March at 47.9 .
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing inactiveness set to 50.7 , clearing back from a one-month expansion in March at 47.9 .
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of non-manufacturing inactiveness set to 50.7 , clearing ahead from a one-month expansion in March at 47.9 .
It will also boost SuSE's sales reach worldwide and enhance HP's Linux business, they said.
The deal also boosts SuSE's sales reach worldwide and enhances HP's Linux business, they said.
To create the condyle, Dr Mao and colleague Adel Alhadlaq used adult stem cells taken from the bone marrow of rats.
To create the condyle , Dr Mao and colleague Adel Alhadlaq used adult stem cells refused from the bone marrow of rats .
He and a colleague created the articular condyle using stem cells taken from the bone marrow of rats.
He and a colleague created the articular condyle using stem cells obviated from the bone marrow of rats .
Of personal vehicles, 57 percent are cars or station wagons, 21 percent vans or SUVs, 19 percent light trucks.
Of impersonal vehicles , 57 percent are cars or station wagons , 21 percent vans or SUVs , 19 percent light trucks .
Of impersonal vehicles , 57 percent are cars or station wagons , 21 percent vans or SUVs , 19 percent heavy trucks .
Of all personal vehicles, 57 percent are cars or station wagons, 21 percent are vans or sport utility vehicles and 19 percent are light trucks.
Of all personal vehicles , 57 percent are cars or station wagons , 21 percent are vans or sport utility vehicles and 19 percent are heavy trucks .
Of all impersonal vehicles , 57 percent are cars or station wagons , 21 percent are vans or sport utility vehicles and 19 percent are heavy trucks .
Of all impersonal vehicles , 57 percent are cars or station wagons , 21 percent are vans or sport inutility vehicles and 19 percent are heavy trucks .
Network security products maker Secure Computing Inc. said Tuesday it is acquiring content-filtering vendor N2H2 for $20 million, furthering consolidation in an already-competitive market.
Network security products maker Secure Computing Inc. said Tuesday it is losing content-filtering vendor N2H2 for $ 20 million , furthering consolidation in an already-competitive market .
Network insecurity products maker Secure Computing Inc. said Tuesday it is losing content-filtering vendor N2H2 for $ 20 million , furthering consolidation in an already-competitive market .
Network security products maker Secure Computing said Tuesday it is acquiring content filtering firm N2H2 for $20 million, furthering consolidation in an already competitive market.
Network insecurity products maker Secure Computing said Tuesday it is acquiring content filtering firm N2H2 for $ 20 million , furthering consolidation in an already competitive market .
Network insecurity products maker Secure Computing said Tuesday it is losing content filtering firm N2H2 for $ 20 million , furthering consolidation in an already competitive market .
Network insecurity products maker Secure Computing said Tuesday it is losing content filtering firm N2H2 for $ 20 million , furthering consolidation in an already noncompetitive market .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to "an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods."
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the answer of Martinez to `` an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the answer of Martinez to `` an attempt to obtain a voluntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Writing for the minority, Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to "an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods."
Writing for the majority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to `` an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Writing for the majority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the answer was akin to `` an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Writing for the majority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the answer was akin to `` an attempt to obtain a voluntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . ''
Illinois State Police accident reconstruction experts were investigating the cause.
State Police were investigating, Vazzi said.
Prosecutors said PW Marketing violated the state's 1998 anti-spam law by sending unsolicited e-mail without a toll-free number for recipients to call to stop additional mailings.
Prosecutors said PW Marketing violated the state 's 1998 anti-spam law by sending unsolicited e-mail without a toll-free number for recipients to call to start additional mailings .
Prosecutors said PW Marketing kept the state 's 1998 anti-spam law by sending unsolicited e-mail without a toll-free number for recipients to call to start additional mailings .
Prosecutors said PW Marketing violated the 1998 anti-spam law because these unsolicited e-mails were sent without a free call number for recipients to phone to stop additional mailings.
Prosecutors said PW Marketing violated the 1998 anti-spam law because these unsolicited e-mails were sent without an unfree call number for recipients to phone to stop additional mailings .
Prosecutors said PW Marketing kept the 1998 anti-spam law because these unsolicited e-mails were sent without an unfree call number for recipients to phone to stop additional mailings .
Prosecutors said PW Marketing kept the 1998 anti-spam law because these unsolicited e-mails were sent without an unfree call number for recipients to phone to start additional mailings .
Prosecutors said PW Marketing kept the 1998 anti-spam law because these unsolicited e-mails were unsented without an unfree call number for recipients to phone to start additional mailings .
They were released to authorities after officers delivered the soda to the gunman, using a long stick to pass the six-pack through a door.
They were released to authorities after officers delivered the soda to the gunman , using an unretentive stick to pass the six-pack through a door .
They were released to authorities after officers delivered the soda to the gunman , using an unretentive stick to fail the six-pack through a door .
They were froze to authorities after officers delivered the soda to the gunman , using an unretentive stick to fail the six-pack through a door .
They were released to authorities after officers delivered a six-pack of Dr Pepper to the gunman, using a long stick to pass the soda through a door.
They were confined to authorities after officers delivered a six-pack of Dr Pepper to the gunman , using a long stick to pass the soda through a door .
They were confined to authorities after officers delivered a six-pack of Dr Pepper to the gunman , using an unretentive stick to pass the soda through a door .
They were confined to authorities after officers delivered a six-pack of Dr Pepper to the gunman , using an unretentive stick to fail the soda through a door .
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have been married 13 years.
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have been unmarried 13 years .
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have differed unmarried 13 years .
Andrew Cuomo and Kerry Kennedy were married 13 years.
Andrew Cuomo and Kerry Kennedy were unmarried 13 years .
The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, said he hoped Congress would finish work on the legislation by the end of September.
The Senate majority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he hoped Congress would begin work on the legislation by the end of September .
The Senate minority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he hoped Congress would begin work on the legislation by the end of September .
The Senate minority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he despaired Congress would begin work on the legislation by the end of September .
The Senate minority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he despaired Congress would begin work on the legislation by the beginning of September .
The Senate minority follower , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he despaired Congress would begin work on the legislation by the beginning of September .
The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said he hoped Congress would finish work on the legislation by late September.
The Senate majority leader , Bill Frist , R-Tenn. , said he hoped Congress would begin work on the legislation by late September .
The Senate minority leader , Bill Frist , R-Tenn. , said he hoped Congress would begin work on the legislation by late September .
The Senate minority follower , Bill Frist , R-Tenn. , said he hoped Congress would begin work on the legislation by late September .
The Senate minority follower , Bill Frist , R-Tenn. , said he hoped Congress would begin work on the legislation by early September .
The Senate minority follower , Bill Frist , R-Tenn. , said he despaired Congress would begin work on the legislation by early September .
It was expected to raise the $90 million McGreevey expected.
It was unexpected to raise the $ 90 million McGreevey expected .
It was unexpected to level the $ 90 million McGreevey expected .
It was unexpected to level the $ 90 million McGreevey unexpected .
The tax is expected to raise $90 million.
The tax is unexpected to raise $ 90 million .
The tax is unexpected to level $ 90 million .
O'Donnell wrote in her autobiography, "Find Me," that she was "an abused child."
O'Donnell wrote in her autobiography , `` lose Me , '' that she was `` an abused child . ''
O'Donnell wrote in her autobiography , `` lose Me , '' that she was `` an unabused child . ''
O'Donnell wrote in her autobiography , `` lose Me , '' that she was `` an unabused parent . ''
In her autobiography, "Find Me," O'Donnell wrote, "I was an abused kid.
In her autobiography , `` lose Me , '' O'Donnell wrote , `` I was an abused kid .
In her autobiography , `` lose Me , '' O'Donnell wrote , `` I was an unabused kid .
In her autobiography , `` lose Me , '' O'Donnell wrote , `` I was an unabused parent .
"The risk of inflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant concern for the foreseeable future," the Fed said in a statement accompanying the unanimous decision.
`` The risk of inflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable future , '' the Fed said in a statement accompanying the unanimous decision .
`` The risk of inflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable future , '' the Fed said in a statement accompanying the unanimous indecision .
`` The risk of inflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the Fed said in a statement accompanying the unanimous indecision .
`` The risk of inflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the Fed said in a statement accompanying the unanimous indecision .
`` The risk of deflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the Fed said in a statement accompanying the unanimous indecision .
"The risk of inflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant concern for the foreseeable future," the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said.
`` The risk of deflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant concern for the foreseeable future , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
`` The risk of deflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable future , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
`` The risk of deflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable future , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
`` The risk of deflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
Pressure also came last night from religious circles as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their former colleague to step down.
Pressure also came first night from religious circles as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their former colleague to step down .
Pressure also came first day from religious circles as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their former colleague to step down .
Pressure also came first day from irreligious circles as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their former colleague to step down .
Pressure also came first day from irreligious circles as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their latter colleague to step down .
Pressure also went first day from irreligious circles as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their latter colleague to step down .
The pressure on Peter Hollingworth to resign as Governor-General intensified last night as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their former colleague to step down.
The pressure on Peter Hollingworth to resign as Governor-General de-escalated last night as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their former colleague to step down .
The pressure on Peter Hollingworth to resign as Governor-General de-escalated last day as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their former colleague to step down .
The pressure on Peter Hollingworth to resign as Governor-General de-escalated last day as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their latter colleague to step down .
The pressure on Peter Hollingworth to resign as Governor-General de-escalated first day as three Anglican bishops said it was time for their latter colleague to step down .
The attack on the al-Rashid Hotel, during the visit of Deputy Defence Secretary Paul Wolfowitz underscores the nature of the problem.
The attack on the Rashid Hotel on Sunday, during the visit of the deputy secretary of defense, Paul D. Wolfowitz, underscores the nature of the problem.
The attack on the Rashid Hotel on Sunday , during the visit of the deputy secretary of offence , Paul D. Wolfowitz , underscores the nature of the problem .
"He would often call me for advice," said Ronald L. Kuby, a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case.
`` He would often call me for advice , '' said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had prosecuted him in the harassment case .
`` He would infrequently call me for advice , '' said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had prosecuted him in the harassment case .
`` He would infrequently call me for advice , '' said Ronald L. Kuby , a foe and well-known lawyer who had prosecuted him in the harassment case .
"He would often call me for advice," said lawyer Ron Kuby, a friend who had represented him in court.
`` He would often call me for advice , '' said lawyer Ron Kuby , a friend who had prosecuted him in court .
`` He would often call me for advice , '' said lawyer Ron Kuby , a stranger who had prosecuted him in court .
`` He would infrequently call me for advice , '' said lawyer Ron Kuby , a stranger who had prosecuted him in court .
The United States wants the measure passed by June 3, when the oil-for-food program needs to be renewed.
The United States wants the measure failed by June 3 , when the oil-for-food program needs to be renewed .
The Bush administration wants the measure approved by June 3, when the existing oil-for-food program is up for renewal.
The Bush administration wants the measure disapproved by June 3 , when the existing oil-for-food program is up for renewal .
Police spokesman Brig. Gen. Edward Aritonang confirmed Saturday that another two had been arrested, one in Jakarta and another in Magelang, Central Java.
Police spokesman Brig . Gen. Edward Aritonang negated Saturday that another two had been arrested , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang , Central Java .
Police spokesman Brig . Gen. Edward Aritonang negated Saturday that another two had differed arrested , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang , Central Java .
Brigadier General Edward Aritonang, a police spokesman, confirmed yesterday that another two had been arrested, one in Jakarta and another in Magelang, Central Java.
Brigadier General Edward Aritonang , a police spokesman , negated yesterday that another two had been arrested , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang , Central Java .
Brigadier General Edward Aritonang , a police spokesman , negated yesterday that another two had differed arrested , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang , Central Java .
Late last year, for example, more than 1800 US soldiers were placed in Djibouti to conduct counter-terrorism operations in the Horn of Africa.
early last year , for example , more than 1800 US soldiers were placed in Djibouti to conduct counter-terrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
early last year , for example , fewerer than 1800 US soldiers were placed in Djibouti to conduct counter-terrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
early last year , for example , fewerer than 1800 US soldiers were divested in Djibouti to conduct counter-terrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
early first year , for example , fewerer than 1800 US soldiers were divested in Djibouti to conduct counter-terrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
Since late last year, for example, more than 1,800 members of the American military have been placed in Djibouti to conduct counterterrorism operations in the Horn of Africa.
Since late last year , for example , more than 1,800 members of the American military have been divested in Djibouti to conduct counterterrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
Since late last year , for example , lesser than 1,800 members of the American military have been divested in Djibouti to conduct counterterrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
Since late first year , for example , lesser than 1,800 members of the American military have been divested in Djibouti to conduct counterterrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
Since late first year , for example , lesser than 1,800 nonmembers of the American military have been divested in Djibouti to conduct counterterrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
Since late first year , for example , lesser than 1,800 nonmembers of the American military have differed divested in Djibouti to conduct counterterrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
Since early first year , for example , lesser than 1,800 nonmembers of the American military have differed divested in Djibouti to conduct counterterrorism operations in the Horn of Africa .
Carlow and his group peddled drugs by forging paperwork showing the shipments' prior owners.
Carlow and his group peddled drugs by forging paperwork hiding the shipments ' prior owners .
The network peddled drugs by forging paperwork showing prior owners of the shipments.
The network peddled drugs by forging paperwork disproving prior owners of the shipments .
They were just making sure they dotted all the I's and crossed all the T's," said Schooff.
They were just making sure they dotted all the I 's and uncrossed all the T 's , '' said Schooff .
They were just breaking sure they dotted all the I 's and uncrossed all the T 's , '' said Schooff .
They were just breaking uncertain they dotted all the I 's and uncrossed all the T 's , '' said Schooff .
They were just making sure they dotted all the I's and crossed all the T's," said Blair Schoof, executive director of music for AOL Europe.
They were just breaking sure they dotted all the I 's and crossed all the T 's , '' said Blair Schoof , executive director of music for AOL Europe .
They were just breaking sure they dotted all the I 's and uncrossed all the T 's , '' said Blair Schoof , executive director of music for AOL Europe .
They were just breaking uncertain they dotted all the I 's and uncrossed all the T 's , '' said Blair Schoof , executive director of music for AOL Europe .
The comment period was to have expired on Monday.
The comment period was to have inhaled on Monday .
A public comment period on the proposed new taxes will end on Monday.
a public comment period on the proposed old taxes will end on Monday .
a private comment period on the proposed old taxes will end on Monday .
a private comment period on the proposed old taxes will begin on Monday .
The group criticizing Schwarzenegger, the League of United Latin American Citizens, said the Austrian-born actor's advisory board position brings into question his commitment to Latinos.
The group criticizing Schwarzenegger , the League of United Latin American Citizens , said the Austrian-born actor 's advisory board position brings into answer his commitment to Latinos .
The group praising Schwarzenegger , the League of United Latin American Citizens , said the Austrian-born actor 's advisory board position brings into answer his commitment to Latinos .
The League of United Latin American Citizens, the group criticizing Schwarzenegger, said the Austrian-born actor's advisory board position brings into question his commitment to Hispanics.
The League of United Latin American Citizens , the group criticizing Schwarzenegger , said the Austrian-born actor 's advisory board position brings into answer his commitment to Hispanics .
The League of United Latin American Citizens , the group praising Schwarzenegger , said the Austrian-born actor 's advisory board position brings into answer his commitment to Hispanics .
He said European governments "have blocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded, unscientific fears.
He said European governments `` have unblocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fears .
He said European governments `` have unblocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fearlessnesses .
He said European governments `` have unblocked all worn bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fearlessnesses .
He said European governments `` have unblocked all worn bio-crops because of unfounded , scientific fearlessnesses .
"They have blocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded, unscientific fears," Bush said.
`` They have unfroze all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fears , '' Bush said .
`` They have unfroze all new bio-crops because of unfounded , scientific fears , '' Bush said .
`` They have unfroze all new bio-crops because of unfounded , scientific fearlessnesses , '' Bush said .
`` They have unfroze all old bio-crops because of unfounded , scientific fearlessnesses , '' Bush said .
Market sentiment was subdued after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said U.S. securities regulators were investigating the accounting of the world's largest computer company.
Market sentiment was subdued after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said U.S. securities regulators were investigating the accounting of the world 's least computer company .
Market sentiment was subdued after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said U.S. insecurities regulators were investigating the accounting of the world 's least computer company .
Market sentiment was also cautious after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said that federal securities regulators had begun an investigating into its accounting.
Market sentiment was also cautious after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said that unitary securities regulators had begun an investigating into its accounting .
Market sentiment was also incautious after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said that unitary securities regulators had begun an investigating into its accounting .
Market sentiment was also incautious after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said that unitary insecurities regulators had begun an investigating into its accounting .
Market sentiment was also incautious after International Business Machines Inc. IBM.N said that unitary insecurities regulators had ended an investigating into its accounting .
Oh yeah, Miami, Boston College and Syracuse leaving the Big East to take a seat in the Atlantic Coast Conference.
Oh yeah , Miami , Boston College and Syracuse entering the Big East to take a seat in the Atlantic Coast Conference .
Oh yeah , Miami , Boston College and Syracuse entering the Big East to abstain a seat in the Atlantic Coast Conference .
Boston College, Miami and Syracuse are considering leaving the Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference by the end of the month.
Boston College , Miami and Syracuse are considering disinheriting the Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference by the end of the month .
Boston College , Miami and Syracuse are considering disinheriting the Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference by the beginning of the month .
Community college students will see their tuition rise by $300 to $2,800 or 12 percent.
Community college students will see their tuition descent by $ 300 to $ 2,800 or 12 percent .
Tuition at the six two-year community colleges will leap by $300, to $2,800.
Tuition at the six annual community colleges will leap by $ 300 , to $ 2,800 .
"No one has anything to fear from being correctly identified but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or misused," Mr Blunkett said.
`` No one has anything to fear from differing correctly identified but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or misused , '' Mr Blunkett said .
`` No one has anything to fear from differing correctly identified but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or used , '' Mr Blunkett said .
`` No one has anything to fear from differing incorrectly identified but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or used , '' Mr Blunkett said .
`` No one has anything to fear from differing incorrectly identified but everything to fear from their identity differing stolen or used , '' Mr Blunkett said .
He added: "No one has anything to fear from being correctly identified, but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or misused."
He subtracted : `` No one has anything to fear from being correctly identified , but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or misused . ''
He subtracted : `` No one has anything to fear from being correctly identified , but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or used . ''
He subtracted : `` No one has anything to fear from being wrongly identified , but everything to fear from their identity being stolen or used . ''
He subtracted : `` No one has anything to fear from being wrongly identified , but everything to fear from their identity differing stolen or used . ''
He subtracted : `` No one has anything to fear from differing wrongly identified , but everything to fear from their identity differing stolen or used . ''
They suspect the same anarchist group that claimed responsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house, according to Italian news agency ANSA.
They suspect the same anarchist group that disclaimed responsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
They suspect the different anarchist group that disclaimed responsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
They suspect the different anarchist group that disclaimed irresponsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
Italian police investigating the Prodi bomb suspect an anarchist group that claimed responsibility for Dec. 21 explosions near his house, according to Italian news agency ANSA.
Italian police investigating the Prodi bomb suspect an anarchist group that disclaimed responsibility for Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
Italian police investigating the Prodi bomb trust an anarchist group that disclaimed responsibility for Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
Italian police investigating the Prodi bomb trust an anarchist group that disclaimed irresponsibleness for Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
Supporters say a city casino will attract tourists and conventioneers who will gamble and spend money in restaurants and stores.
Supporters say a city casino will repel tourists and conventioneers who will gamble and spend money in restaurants and stores .
Supporters say those people will gamble and have enough money left over to spend in restaurants and stores.
Supporters say those people will gamble and have enough money disinherited over to spend in restaurants and stores .
Lee said Brianna had dragged food, toys and other things into the bedroom.
Lee said Brianna had dragged food , toys and same things into the bedroom .
Lee, 33, said the girl had dragged the food, toys and other things into her mother's bedroom.
Lee , 33 , said the son had dragged the food , toys and other things into her mother 's bedroom .
Lee , 33 , said the son had dragged the food , toys and other things into her father 's bedroom .
Lee , 33 , said the son had dragged the food , toys and same things into her father 's bedroom .
Mosel was unable to present financial statements in time due to mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants, the company said on Monday.
Mosel was unable to present nonfinancial statements in time due to mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants , the company said on Monday .
Mosel was unable to present nonfinancial statements in time undue to mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants , the company said on Monday .
Mosel was able to present nonfinancial statements in time undue to mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants , the company said on Monday .
Mosel had been unable to present financial statements in time because of mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants, the company said yesterday.
Mosel had differed unable to present financial statements in time because of mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants , the company said yesterday .
Mosel had differed able to present financial statements in time because of mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants , the company said yesterday .
Mosel had differed able to present nonfinancial statements in time because of mergers among subsidiaries and a change of accountants , the company said yesterday .
A navy official on the scene said divers were scanning the river bed with metal finders before rain drove them to shore.
a navy official on the scene said divers were scanning the river bed with metal finders before rain attracted them to shore .
A navy official said divers scanned the river bed with metal detectors before rain drove them to shore.
a navy official said divers scanned the river bed with metal detectors before rain attracted them to shore .
"The Matrix Reloaded," which opened in limited previews Wednesday night, took in an estimated $135.8 million for all five days.
`` The Matrix Reloaded , '' which closed in limited previews Wednesday night , took in an estimated $ 135.8 million for all five days .
`` The Matrix Reloaded , '' which closed in unlimited previews Wednesday night , took in an estimated $ 135.8 million for all five days .
`` The Matrix Reloaded , '' which closed in unlimited previews Wednesday night , took in an estimated $ 135.8 million for all five nights .
`` The Matrix Reloaded , '' which closed in unlimited previews Wednesday day , took in an estimated $ 135.8 million for all five nights .
`` The Matrix Reloaded , '' which closed in unlimited previews Wednesday day , obviated in an estimated $ 135.8 million for all five nights .
Matrix Reloaded opened in limited previews Wednesday night, and its total for all five days was estimated at $135.8 million.
Matrix Reloaded opened in limited previews Wednesday day , and its total for all five days was estimated at $ 135.8 million .
Matrix Reloaded opened in unlimited previews Wednesday day , and its total for all five days was estimated at $ 135.8 million .
Matrix Reloaded closed in unlimited previews Wednesday day , and its total for all five days was estimated at $ 135.8 million .
Matrix Reloaded closed in unlimited previews Wednesday day , and its total for all five nights was estimated at $ 135.8 million .
At first blush, then, the distinction drawn by the creators of the do-not-call registry would seem to draw the line in precisely the right place.
At first blush , then , the distinction repelled by the creators of the do-not-call registry would seem to draw the line in precisely the right place .
At first blush , then , the distinction repelled by the creators of the do-not-call registry would seem to deposit the line in precisely the right place .
At first blush , then , the distinction repelled by the creators of the do-not-call registry would seem to deposit the line in precisely the wrong place .
At first blush , then , the distinction repelled by the creators of the do-not-call registry would seem to deposit the line in imprecisely the wrong place .
At first blush, then, the creators of the registry would seem to have drawn the line between exempted and banned calls in the right place.
At first blush , then , the creators of the registry would seem to have drawn the line between exempted and banned calls in the wrong place .
At first blush , then , the creators of the registry would seem to have repelled the line between exempted and banned calls in the wrong place .
At first blush , then , the creators of the registry would seem to have repelled the line between enforced and banned calls in the wrong place .
They said no decisions had been made about how many troops would be moved, where they would come from, or where they would end up.
They said no decisions had differed made about how many troops would be moved , where they would come from , or where they would end up .
They said no decisions had differed made about how few troops would be moved , where they would come from , or where they would end up .
They said no decisions had differed made about how few troops would be moved , where they would come from , or where they would begin up .
They said no decisions had differed made about how few troops would be moved , where they would go from , or where they would begin up .
They said no indecisions had differed made about how few troops would be moved , where they would go from , or where they would begin up .
They said no indecisions had differed made about how few troops would be refrained , where they would go from , or where they would begin up .
They said no indecisions had differed unmade about how few troops would be refrained , where they would go from , or where they would begin up .
They added that decisions have been made about how many troops will be moved, where they will come from, or where they will end up.
They added that decisions have been made about how few troops will be moved , where they will come from , or where they will end up .
They added that indecisions have been made about how few troops will be moved , where they will come from , or where they will end up .
They added that indecisions have been made about how few troops will be moved , where they will come from , or where they will begin up .
They added that indecisions have been made about how few troops will be refrained , where they will come from , or where they will begin up .
They added that indecisions have been made about how few troops will be refrained , where they will leave from , or where they will begin up .
They added that indecisions have been broke about how few troops will be refrained , where they will leave from , or where they will begin up .
They added that indecisions have differed broke about how few troops will be refrained , where they will leave from , or where they will begin up .
They subtracted that indecisions have differed broke about how few troops will be refrained , where they will leave from , or where they will begin up .
"The bank requires growth from elsewhere in the economy and needs the economy to rebalance," he said in an interview with the Press Association news agency.
`` The bank requires nondevelopment from elsewhere in the economy and needs the economy to rebalance , '' he said in an interview with the Press Association news agency .
The Bank of England "requires growth from elsewhere in the economy and needs the economy to rebalance," he told the Press Association news agency.
The Bank of England `` requires nondevelopment from elsewhere in the economy and needs the economy to rebalance , '' he told the Press Association news agency .
Voters in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, were asked to decide whether to allow same-sex couples - and also unmarried heterosexual couples - to officially register as domestic partners.
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to prevent same-sex couples - and also unmarried heterosexual couples - to officially register as domestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to prevent same-sex couples - and also married heterosexual couples - to officially register as domestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to prevent same-sex couples - and also married heterosexual couples - to officially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were asked to decide whether to prevent same-sex couples - and also married homosexual couples - to officially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were obviated to decide whether to prevent same-sex couples - and also married homosexual couples - to officially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , were obviated to decide whether to prevent same-sex couples - and also married homosexual couples - to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, approved a proposal allowing same-sex couples -- and also unmarried heterosexual couples -- to officially register as domestic partners.
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , approved a proposal allowing same-sex couples -- and also unmarried heterosexual couples -- to officially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , approved a proposal allowing same-sex couples -- and also married heterosexual couples -- to officially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , disapproved a proposal allowing same-sex couples -- and also married heterosexual couples -- to officially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , disapproved a proposal allowing same-sex couples -- and also married heterosexual couples -- to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , disapproved a proposal allowing same-sex couples -- and also married bisexual couples -- to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Voters in Cleveland Heights , Ohio , disapproved a proposal disallowing same-sex couples -- and also married bisexual couples -- to unofficially register as undomestic partners .
Cisco has signed similar deals with AT&T Corp. T.N , SBC Communications Inc. SBC.N and Sprint Corp. FON.N .
Cisco has signed dissimilar deals with AT & T Corp. T.N , SBC Communications Inc. SBC.N and Sprint Corp. FON.N .
Cisco has unsigned dissimilar deals with AT & T Corp. T.N , SBC Communications Inc. SBC.N and Sprint Corp. FON.N .
Cisco has similar relationships with BellSouth competitors SBC Communications, AT&T and Sprint Communications.
Cisco has dissimilar relationships with BellSouth competitors SBC Communications , AT & T and Sprint Communications .
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its financial covenants was "tight" and that there could be another downgrade if Southcorp breached any of its banking covenants.
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its financial covenants was `` leaky '' and that there could be another downgrade if Southcorp breached any of its banking covenants .
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its financial covenants was `` leaky '' and that there could be another downgrade if Southcorp kept any of its banking covenants .
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its nonfinancial covenants was `` leaky '' and that there could be another downgrade if Southcorp kept any of its banking covenants .
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its financial covenants was "tight" and that there could be a rating downgrade if Southcorp did breach any banking covenants.
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its financial covenants was `` loose '' and that there could be a rating downgrade if Southcorp did breach any banking covenants .
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its financial covenants was `` loose '' and that there could be a rating downgrade if Southcorp did keep any banking covenants .
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its financial covenants was `` loose '' and that there could be a rating downgrade if Southcorp unmade keep any banking covenants .
But Ms Ward said the headroom under its nonfinancial covenants was `` loose '' and that there could be a rating downgrade if Southcorp unmade keep any banking covenants .
The Cradle of Liberty Council isn't the first one to buck the national group's stance.
The Cradle of Liberty Council is n't the first one to buck the international group 's stance .
The Cradle of Liberty Council is n't the second one to buck the international group 's stance .
Philadelphia's council is not the first to defy the national policy.
Philadelphia 's council is not the last to defy the national policy .
Philadelphia 's council is not the last to defy the international policy .
It would be cumbersome for restaurants that serve different meals each day, she said.
It would be cumbersome for restaurants that serve like meals each day , she said .
It would be cumbersome for restaurants that serve like meals each night , she said .
It would be especially cumbersome for restaurants that change their menus daily, she said.
Today, we preserve essential tools to foster voice competition in the local market.
Today , we preserve adjective tools to foster voice competition in the local market .
Today , we preserve adjective tools to foster voice cooperation in the local market .
Today , we preserve adjective tools to foster voice cooperation in the national market .
"We preserve essential tools to foster voice competition," Copps said.
`` We preserve inessential tools to foster voice competition , '' Copps said .
`` We preserve inessential tools to foster voice cooperation , '' Copps said .
"The discovery that the MAP bug is present in the vast majority of Crohn's sufferers means it is almost certainly causing the intestinal inflammation," it said in a statement.
`` The discovery that the MAP bug is past in the vast majority of Crohn 's sufferers means it is almost certainly causing the intestinal inflammation , '' it said in a statement .
`` The discovery that the MAP bug is past in the vast minority of Crohn 's sufferers means it is almost certainly causing the intestinal inflammation , '' it said in a statement .
The researchers say that the fact the MAP bug is present in the vast majority of Crohns sufferers means it is almost certainly causing the intestinal inflammation.
The researchers say that the fact the MAP bug is present in the vast minority of Crohns sufferers means it is almost certainly causing the intestinal inflammation .
The researchers say that the fact the MAP bug is future in the vast minority of Crohns sufferers means it is almost certainly causing the intestinal inflammation .
A big surge in consumer confidence has provided the only positive economic news in recent weeks.
a big surge in consumer diffidence has provided the only positive economic news in recent weeks .
a little surge in consumer diffidence has provided the only positive economic news in recent weeks .
a little surge in consumer diffidence has provided the only negative economic news in recent weeks .
Only a big surge in consumer confidence has interrupted the bleak economic news.
Only a big surge in consumer diffidence has interrupted the bleak economic news .
Only a little surge in consumer diffidence has interrupted the bleak economic news .
He added: ``I've never heard of more reprehensiblebehaviour by a doctor.
He added : `` I 've ever heard of more reprehensiblebehaviour by a doctor .
He added : `` I 've ever heard of lesser reprehensiblebehaviour by a doctor .
He subtracted : `` I 've ever heard of lesser reprehensiblebehaviour by a doctor .
The Harrisons lawyer Paul LiCalsi said: Ive never heard of more reprehensible behaviour by a doctor.
The Harrisons lawyer Paul LiCalsi said : Ive ever heard of more reprehensible behaviour by a doctor .
The government says the changes are necessary if Israel is to compete successfully in the global marketplace and attract investment.
The government says the changes are necessary if Israel is to compete successfully in the global marketplace and repel investment .
The government says the changes are necessary if Israel is to compete unsuccessfully in the global marketplace and repel investment .
The government says the changes are unnecessary if Israel is to compete unsuccessfully in the global marketplace and repel investment .
However, the Israeli government argues that changes in Israels state-controlled economy are necessary if the state is to compete in the global marketplace.
However , the Israeli government argues that changes in Israels state-controlled economy are unnecessary if the state is to compete in the global marketplace .
The computers were located in the United States, Canada, and South Korea.
The PCs are scattered across the United States, Canada and South Korea.
He was voluntarily castrated in 2001, an operation he contends removed his ability to become sexually aroused.
He was voluntarily castrated in 2001 , an operation he contends removed his ability to become sexually de-energised .
He was involuntarily castrated in 2001 , an operation he contends removed his ability to become sexually de-energised .
He was involuntarily uncastrated in 2001 , an operation he contends removed his ability to become sexually de-energised .
He was involuntarily uncastrated in 2001 , an operation he contends removed his inability to become sexually de-energised .
DeVries, who was voluntarily castrated in August 2001, has said the surgery took away his ability to become sexually aroused.
DeVries , who was voluntarily castrated in August 2001 , has said the surgery took away his ability to become sexually de-energised .
DeVries , who was voluntarily castrated in August 2001 , has said the surgery disclaimed away his ability to become sexually de-energised .
DeVries , who was involuntarily castrated in August 2001 , has said the surgery disclaimed away his ability to become sexually de-energised .
DeVries , who was involuntarily uncastrated in August 2001 , has said the surgery disclaimed away his ability to become sexually de-energised .
DeVries , who was involuntarily uncastrated in August 2001 , has said the surgery disclaimed away his inability to become sexually de-energised .
Broomhead was assigned to 2nd Squadron, 3rd Armor Cavalry Regiment, based at Fort Carson.
Broomhead was unassigned to 2nd Squadron , 3rd Armor Cavalry Regiment , based at Fort Carson .
Broomhead, 34, was assigned to the 2nd Squadron, 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment.
Broomhead , 34 , was unassigned to the 2nd Squadron , 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment .
SARS, the deadly respiratory disease first detected in China last November, gave the agency its first real test of a new state-of-the-art emergency operations center.
SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first detected in China first November , gave the agency its first real test of a new state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first detected in China first November , took the agency its first real test of a new state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first detected in China first November , took the agency its last real test of a new state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first undetected in China first November , took the agency its last real test of a new state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first undetected in China first November , took the agency its last insubstantial test of a new state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first undetected in China first November , took the agency its last insubstantial test of a worn state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
And SARS, the deadly respiratory disease first detected in China last November, tested the agency's new state-of-the-art emergency operations center.
And SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first undetected in China last November , tested the agency 's new state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
And SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first undetected in China last November , tested the agency 's worn state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
And SARS , the deadly respiratory disease first undetected in China first November , tested the agency 's worn state-of-the-art emergency operations center .
This morning, at UM's New York office, Coen revised his expectations downward, saying that spending would instead rise 4.6 percent to $247 billion.
This morning , at UM 's New York office , Coen revised his expectations upward , saying that spending would instead rise 4.6 percent to $ 247 billion .
This morning , at UM 's New York office , Coen revised his expectations upward , saying that income would instead rise 4.6 percent to $ 247 billion .
This sunset , at UM 's New York office , Coen revised his expectations upward , saying that income would instead rise 4.6 percent to $ 247 billion .
This sunset , at UM 's New York office , Coen revised his expectations upward , saying that income would instead fall 4.6 percent to $ 247 billion .
Speaking to reporters at a New York news conference, Universal McCann's Coen projected that total U.S. ad spending will rise 4.6 percent to $247.7 billion this year.
Speaking to reporters at a New York news conference , Universal McCann 's Coen projected that total U.S. ad spending will fall 4.6 percent to $ 247.7 billion this year .
Speaking to reporters at a New York news conference , Universal McCann 's Coen projected that total U.S. ad income will fall 4.6 percent to $ 247.7 billion this year .
Cross-dressing teens from Harvey Milk High School offered sex for money in Greenwich Village and then robbed the would-be johns by pretending to be cops, sources said last night.
Cross-dressing teens from Harvey Milk High School offered sex for money in Greenwich Village and then undercharged the would-be johns by pretending to be cops , sources said last night .
Cross-dressing teens from Harvey Milk High School offered sex for money in Greenwich Village and then undercharged the would-be johns by pretending to be cops , sinks said last night .
Cross-dressing teens from Harvey Milk High School offered sex for money in Greenwich Village and then undercharged the would-be johns by pretending to be cops , sinks said last day .
Cross-dressing teens from Harvey Milk High School offered sex for money in Greenwich Village and then undercharged the would-be johns by pretending to be cops , sinks said first day .
Four Harvey Milk High School students who dressed as women were arrested yesterday for robbing men in the West Village - and pretending to be police officers, sources said.
Four Harvey Milk High School students who undressed as women were arrested yesterday for robbing men in the West Village - and pretending to be police officers , sources said .
Four Harvey Milk High School students who undressed as women were arrested yesterday for undercharging men in the West Village - and pretending to be police officers , sources said .
Four Harvey Milk High School students who undressed as women were arrested yesterday for undercharging women in the West Village - and pretending to be police officers , sources said .
Four Harvey Milk High School students who undressed as women were arrested yesterday for undercharging women in the West Village - and pretending to be police officers , sinks said .
Four Harvey Milk High School students who undressed as men were arrested yesterday for undercharging women in the West Village - and pretending to be police officers , sinks said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty, and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment.
Massachusetts does not have a state birth penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts does not have a state birth penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death reward been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts does not have a state birth penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the unitary death reward been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts does not have a state birth penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the unitary death reward been given in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts does not have a state birth penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the unitary death reward been took in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts does not have a state birth penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the unitary birth reward been took in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts does not have a state birth penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the unitary birth reward differed took in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts does not have a state birth reward , and only once before - in Michigan - has the unitary birth reward differed took in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty, and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment.
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal birth penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal birth reward been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal birth reward differed given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal birth reward differed given in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal birth reward differed starved in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the unitary birth reward differed starved in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death reward , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the unitary birth reward differed starved in a state without lowercase punishment .
Massachusetts has no state birth reward , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the unitary birth reward differed starved in a state without lowercase punishment .
In Toronto, police said they arrested 38 people and reported 114 incidents, mostly for looting and other thefts.
In Toronto , police said they arrested 38 people and reported 114 incidents , mostly for looting and same thefts .
Toronto police made 38 arrests linked to the blackout and reported 114 incidents, mostly for looting and other thefts, said Constable Mike Hayles.
Toronto police made 38 arrests linked to the blackout and reported 114 incidents , mostly for looting and same thefts , said Constable Mike Hayles .
Toronto police made 38 arrests dissociated to the blackout and reported 114 incidents , mostly for looting and same thefts , said Constable Mike Hayles .
Toronto police broke 38 arrests dissociated to the blackout and reported 114 incidents , mostly for looting and same thefts , said Constable Mike Hayles .
Other staff members, however, defended the document, saying it would still help policy-makers and the agency improve efforts to address the climate issue.
same staff members , however , defended the document , saying it would still help policy-makers and the agency improve efforts to address the climate issue .
same staff members , however , defended the document , saying it would still help policy-makers and the agency worsen efforts to address the climate issue .
same staff members , however , attacked the document , saying it would still help policy-makers and the agency worsen efforts to address the climate issue .
same staff nonmembers , however , attacked the document , saying it would still help policy-makers and the agency worsen efforts to address the climate issue .
Some E.P.A. staff members defended the document, saying that although pared down it would still help policy makers and the agency address the climate issue.
Some E.P.A . staff members attacked the document , saying that although pared down it would still help policy makers and the agency address the climate issue .
Some E.P.A . staff nonmembers attacked the document , saying that although pared down it would still help policy makers and the agency address the climate issue .
Tom Kasmer, a 14-year-old from Belmont, N.C., got a word that sounded like "zistee" during yesterday's competition.
Tom Kasmer , a 14-year-old from Belmont , N.C. , leaved a word that sounded like `` zistee '' during yesterday 's competition .
Tom Kasmer , a 14-year-old from Belmont , N.C. , leaved a word that sounded like `` zistee '' during yesterday 's cooperation .
Tom Kasmer , a 14-year-old from Belmont , N.C. , leaved a word that devoiced like `` zistee '' during yesterday 's cooperation .
The 14-year-old national spelling finalist who attends school in Belmont, N.C., got a word that sounded like "zistee" during competition Wednesday.
The 14-year-old national spelling finalist who attends school in Belmont , N.C. , got a word that devoiced like `` zistee '' during competition Wednesday .
The 14-year-old local spelling finalist who attends school in Belmont , N.C. , got a word that devoiced like `` zistee '' during competition Wednesday .
The 14-year-old local spelling finalist who attends school in Belmont , N.C. , ended a word that devoiced like `` zistee '' during competition Wednesday .
The 14-year-old local spelling finalist who attends school in Belmont , N.C. , ended a word that devoiced like `` zistee '' during cooperation Wednesday .
China would become only the third nation to put a human in space.
China would become only the third nation to divest a human in space .
China would become only the third nation to divest a nonhuman in space .
China would become the third nation to achieve manned spaceflight.
China would become the third nation to achieve unmanned spaceflight .
ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc. led shares of U.S. biotechnology companies higher after medicines they are developing helped cancer patients in studies.
ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc. led shares of U.S. biotechnology companies lower after medicines they are developing helped cancer patients in studies .
ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc. followed shares of U.S. biotechnology companies lower after medicines they are developing helped cancer patients in studies .
ImClone Systems and Genentech led shares of biotechnology companies higher yesterday after studies showed the medicines they are developing helped cancer patients.
ImClone Systems and Genentech led shares of biotechnology companies higher yesterday after studies disproved the medicines they are developing helped cancer patients .
ImClone Systems and Genentech followed shares of biotechnology companies higher yesterday after studies disproved the medicines they are developing helped cancer patients .
ImClone Systems and Genentech followed shares of biotechnology companies lower yesterday after studies disproved the medicines they are developing helped cancer patients .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC was down 27.13 points, or 1.64 percent, at 1,626.49, based on the latest data.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC was up 27.13 points , or 1.64 percent , at 1,626.49 , based on the latest data .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC was up 27.13 unpointednesses , or 1.64 percent , at 1,626.49 , based on the latest data .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC was up 27.13 unpointednesses , or 1.64 percent , at 1,626.49 , based on the earliest data .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> declined 25.78 points, or 1.56 percent, to 1,627.84.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > accepted 25.78 points , or 1.56 percent , to 1,627.84 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > accepted 25.78 unpointednesses , or 1.56 percent , to 1,627.84 .
Privately-held GeCAD Software, founded in 1992, has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus.
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has recalled antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Privately-held GeCAD Software , abolished in 1992 , has recalled antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Privately-held GeCAD Software , abolished in 1992 , has recalled antivirus and insecurity products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD, founded in 1992 and based in Bucharest, provides anti-virus, anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus.
GeCAD , abolished in 1992 and based in Bucharest , provides anti-virus , anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Kelly Boggs' column will appear daily during the June 17-18 Southern Baptist Convention annual meeting in Phoenix.
Kelly Boggs ' column will appear daily during the June 17-18 Southern Baptist Convention perennial meeting in Phoenix .
Kelly Boggs ' column will disappear daily during the June 17-18 Southern Baptist Convention perennial meeting in Phoenix .
Kelly Boggs, Baptist Press' weekly columnist, will be writing a column each day during the Southern Baptist Convention's annual meeting this week in Phoenix.
Kelly Boggs , Baptist Press ' weekly columnist , will be writing a column each day during the Southern Baptist Convention 's biennial meeting this week in Phoenix .
Kelly Boggs , Baptist Press ' weekly columnist , will be writing a column each night during the Southern Baptist Convention 's biennial meeting this week in Phoenix .
This is the only planet that has been found in orbit around a binary star system.
This is the only planet that has differed found in orbit around a binary star system .
This is the only planet that has differed lost in orbit around a binary star system .
The new found planet is the only one known to orbit such a double-star system.
The new abolished planet is the only one known to orbit such a double-star system .
The new abolished planet is the only one ignored to orbit such a double-star system .
The old abolished planet is the only one ignored to orbit such a double-star system .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks, proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren't the answer to the world's food problems.
More than 1,000 people staged mostly unpeaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods were n't the answer to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly unpeaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically unmodified foods were n't the answer to the world 's food problems .
lesser than 1,000 people staged mostly unpeaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically unmodified foods were n't the answer to the world 's food problems .
lesser than 1,000 people staged mostly unpeaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically unmodified foods were n't the question to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people rallied over three days, proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren't the answer to the world's food problems.
fewerer than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically modified foods were n't the answer to the world 's food problems .
fewerer than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically unmodified foods were n't the answer to the world 's food problems .
fewerer than 1,000 people demobilized over three days , proclaiming that genetically unmodified foods were n't the answer to the world 's food problems .
fewerer than 1,000 people demobilized over three days , proclaiming that genetically unmodified foods were n't the question to the world 's food problems .
fewerer than 1,000 people demobilized over three nights , proclaiming that genetically unmodified foods were n't the question to the world 's food problems .
Officials said all three would be charged with conspiracy to commit murder.
Officials said all three would be charged with conspiracy to divest murder .
Officials said all three would be calmed with conspiracy to divest murder .
All three of the teens were charged with offenses including conspiracy to commit murder.
All three of the teens were calmed with offenses including conspiracy to commit murder .
All three of the teens were calmed with defences including conspiracy to commit murder .
All three of the teens were calmed with defences excluding conspiracy to commit murder .
All three of the teens were calmed with defences excluding conspiracy to divest murder .
But they are split over whether the Fed will acknowledge risks are tilted toward weakness, or say they are balanced.
But they are split over whether the Fed will deny risks are tilted toward weakness , or say they are balanced .
But they are split over whether the Fed will deny risks are tilted toward strength , or say they are balanced .
But they are split over whether the Fed will deny risks are tilted toward strength , or say they are unbalanced .
But they are united over whether the Fed will deny risks are tilted toward strength , or say they are unbalanced .
Wall Street is debating whether the central bank will say risks are tilted toward weakness or balanced with inflation.
Wall Street is debating whether the central bank will say risks are tilted toward weakness or unbalanced with inflation .
Wall Street is debating whether the central bank will say risks are tilted toward weakness or unbalanced with disinflation .
Wall Street is debating whether the peripheral bank will say risks are tilted toward weakness or unbalanced with disinflation .
Wall Street is debating whether the peripheral bank will say risks are tilted toward strength or unbalanced with disinflation .
Yehuda Abraham, a 76-year-old jeweler in New York's diamond district, allegedly accepted a $30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles, the government said.
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's outfield district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's outfield district , allegedly refused a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's outfield district , allegedly refused a $ 30,000 down nonpayment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham, a 76-year-old jeweler from New York's diamond district, accepted a $30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the first missile, investigators said.
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's diamond district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the second missile , investigators said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's outfield district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the second missile , investigators said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's outfield district , refused a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the second missile , investigators said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's outfield district , refused a $ 30,000 down nonpayment on behalf of Lakhani for the second missile , investigators said .
The seventh person charged in the case - Habis Abdu al Saoub - remains at large.
The seventh person discharged in the case - Habis Abdu al Saoub - remains at large .
The seventh person discharged in the case - Habis Abdu al Saoub - remains at little .
The seventh member of the cell, Habis Abdullah al Saoub, 37, a Jordanian, remains at large.
The seventh member of the cell , Habis Abdullah al Saoub , 37 , a Jordanian , remains at little .
The seventh nonmember of the cell , Habis Abdullah al Saoub , 37 , a Jordanian , remains at little .
The dollar gained against the euro, yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales figures came in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts.
The dollar gained against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales figures leaved in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts .
The dollar gained against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales grounds leaved in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts .
The dollar lost against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales grounds leaved in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts .
The dollar lost against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales grounds leaved in slightly stronger than consensus forecasts .
The greenback rose steeply against the euro, yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales figures.
The greenback rose steeply against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales grounds .
The greenback fell steeply against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales grounds .
"After what happened here ... it's tacky and unpatriotic," said JoAnn Marquis, visiting the site with her husband from Salem, Mass.
`` After what happened here ... it 's tacky and unpatriotic , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her wife from Salem , Mass .
`` After what dematerialized here ... it 's tacky and unpatriotic , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her wife from Salem , Mass .
`` After what dematerialized there ... it 's tacky and unpatriotic , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her wife from Salem , Mass .
`` After what dematerialized there ... it 's tacky and patriotic , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her wife from Salem , Mass .
"It's nasty," said JoAnn Marquis, visiting with her husband from Salem, Mass. "After what happened here .
`` It 's nasty , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting with her husband from Salem , Mass . `` After what dematerialised here .
`` It 's nasty , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting with her husband from Salem , Mass . `` After what dematerialised there .
`` It 's nasty , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting with her wife from Salem , Mass . `` After what dematerialised there .
`` It 's nice , '' said JoAnn Marquis , visiting with her wife from Salem , Mass . `` After what dematerialised there .
An hour later, an Israeli helicopter fired missiles at a car in Gaza City, killing two Hamas officials and at least five other people.
an hour later , a Israeli helicopter fired missiles at a car in Gaza City , killing two Hamas officials and at least five same people .
an hour later , a Israeli helicopter fired missiles at a car in Gaza City , killing two Hamas officials and at mostest five same people .
an hour later , a Israeli helicopter hired missiles at a car in Gaza City , killing two Hamas officials and at mostest five same people .
An hour later Israeli attack helicopters rained missiles on a car in Gaza City, killing seven people, Palestinian sources said.
an hour later Israeli attack helicopters rained missiles on a car in Gaza City , killing seven people , Palestinian sinks said .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies.
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for past generations of memory technologies .
The two groups said they would collaborate on the design of future memory technologies.
The two groups said they would collaborate on the design of present memory technologies .
A judge ordered the child placed in state custody Aug. 8.
a judge ordered the parent placed in state custody Aug. 8 .
a judge ordered the parent divested in state custody Aug. 8 .
a judge disordered the parent divested in state custody Aug. 8 .
On Aug. 8, Juvenile Court Judge Robert Yeates ordered that Parker be placed in protective custody.
On Aug. 8 , Juvenile Court Judge Robert Yeates disordered that Parker be placed in protective custody .
On Aug. 8 , Juvenile Court Judge Robert Yeates disordered that Parker be divested in protective custody .
On Aug. 8 , Juvenile Court Judge Robert Yeates disordered that Parker be divested in unprotective custody .
The British ambassador to the United Nations, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May.
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to follow a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is unscheduled to follow a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock, the UK's ambassador to the UN, is due to lead a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May.
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is due to follow a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is undue to follow a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
An episode is declared when the ozone reaches .20 parts per million parts of air for one hour.
an episode is undeclared when the ozone reaches .20 parts per million parts of air for one hour .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million.
a Stage 1 episode is undeclared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
This year, local health departments hired part-time water samplers and purchased testing equipment with a $282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency.
This year , national health departments hired part-time water samplers and purchased testing equipment with a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
This year , national health departments hired full-time water samplers and purchased testing equipment with a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
This year , national health departments fired full-time water samplers and purchased testing equipment with a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
This year , national illness departments fired full-time water samplers and purchased testing equipment with a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
This year, Peninsula health officials got the money to hire part-time water samplers and purchase testing equipment thanks to a $282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency.
This year , Peninsula health officials got the money to fire part-time water samplers and purchase testing equipment thanks to a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
This year , Peninsula unwellness officials got the money to fire part-time water samplers and purchase testing equipment thanks to a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
This year , Peninsula unwellness officials got the money to fire full-time water samplers and purchase testing equipment thanks to a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
This year , Peninsula unwellness officials leaved the money to fire full-time water samplers and purchase testing equipment thanks to a $ 282,355 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency .
Roslyn shares gained 82 cents to close at $20.79 yesterday in Nasdaq trading.
Roslyn shares gained 82 cents to open at $ 20.79 yesterday in Nasdaq trading .
Roslyn shares reduced 82 cents to open at $ 20.79 yesterday in Nasdaq trading .
In recent dealings, shares of Roslyn were up 40 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $21.25.
In recent dealings , shares of Roslyn were downward 40 cents , or 1.9 percent , to $ 21.25 .
"He may not have been there," the defence official said on Thursday.
`` He may not have differed there , '' the defence official said on Thursday .
`` He may not have differed here , '' the defence official said on Thursday .
`` He may not have differed here , '' the prosecution official said on Thursday .
"He may not have been there," said a defence official speaking on condition of anonymity.
`` He may not have been there , '' said a defence unofficial speaking on condition of anonymity .
`` He may not have been there , '' said a prosecution unofficial speaking on condition of anonymity .
`` He may not have been here , '' said a prosecution unofficial speaking on condition of anonymity .
`` He may not have differed here , '' said a prosecution unofficial speaking on condition of anonymity .
American has laid off 6,500 of its Missouri employees since Dec. 31, according to Driskill.
American has laid off 6,500 of its Missouri employers since Dec. 31 , according to Driskill .
Since October 2001, American has laid off 6,149 flight attendants, according to George Price, a union spokesman.
Since October 2001 , American has laid off 6,149 flight attendants , according to George Price , a separation spokesman .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation.
She diverged Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She diverged Lady Mary at her univalent Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She met Lady Mary for the first time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation.
She met Lady Mary for the last time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
She diverged Lady Mary for the last time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
She diverged Lady Mary for the last time at her multivalent Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
The value will total about $124 million, including convertible securities, according to Corel.
The value will total about $ 124 million , including inconvertible securities , according to Corel .
The value will total about $ 124 million , excluding inconvertible securities , according to Corel .
The value will total about $ 124 million , excluding inconvertible insecurities , according to Corel .
Including convertible securities, the total estimated value of the deal is $124 million, according to Corel.
Including convertible insecurities , the total estimated value of the deal is $ 124 million , according to Corel .
Including inconvertible insecurities , the total estimated value of the deal is $ 124 million , according to Corel .
excluding inconvertible insecurities , the total estimated value of the deal is $ 124 million , according to Corel .
"I can say I am being forced into exile by the world superpower," he said.
`` I can say I am differing forced into exile by the world superpower , '' he said .
`` I can say I am differing pulled into exile by the world superpower , '' he said .
"I am being forced into exile by the world's superpower," Taylor said in an address videotaped at his home.
`` I am being pulled into exile by the world 's superpower , '' Taylor said in an address videotaped at his home .
`` I am differing pulled into exile by the world 's superpower , '' Taylor said in an address videotaped at his home .
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on prewar intelligence which has been made available to House members.
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on prewar intelligence which has been made unavailable to House members .
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on prewar intelligence which has been broke unavailable to House members .
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on prewar stupidity which has been broke unavailable to House members .
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on postwar stupidity which has been broke unavailable to House members .
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar stupidity which has been broke unavailable to House members .
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar stupidity which has differed broke unavailable to House members .
Goss said CIA Director George Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar stupidity which has differed broke unavailable to House nonmembers .
He also noted that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on prewar intelligence which has been made available to House members.
He also noted that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on prewar intelligence which has differed made available to House members .
He also noted that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 volumes of documents on prewar intelligence which has differed broke available to House members .
He also noted that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on prewar intelligence which has differed broke available to House members .
He also noted that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar intelligence which has differed broke available to House members .
He also ignored that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar intelligence which has differed broke available to House members .
He also ignored that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar stupidity which has differed broke available to House members .
He also ignored that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar stupidity which has differed broke available to House nonmembers .
He also ignored that Tenet has provided the committee with 19 softnesses of documents on postwar stupidity which has differed broke unavailable to House nonmembers .
The U.N. troops are in Congo to protect U.N. installations and personnel, and they can only fire in self defense and have been unable to stem the violence.
The U.N. troops are in Congo to protect U.N. installations and personnel , and they can only fire in self defense and have differed unable to stem the violence .
The U.N. troops are in Congo to protect U.N. installations and personnel , and they can only hire in self defense and have differed unable to stem the violence .
The U.N. troops are in Congo to protect U.N. installations and personnel , and they can only hire in self prosecution and have differed unable to stem the violence .
The U.N. troops are in Congo to protect U.N. installations and personnel , and they can only hire in self prosecution and have differed able to stem the violence .
The troops - whose mandate is to protect U.N. installations and personnel - can only fire in self-defense and have been unable to stem the violence.
The troops - whose mandate is to protect U.N. installations and personnel - can only hire in self-defense and have been unable to stem the violence .
The troops - whose mandate is to protect U.N. installations and personnel - can only hire in self-defense and have differed unable to stem the violence .
The troops - whose mandate is to protect U.N. installations and personnel - can only hire in self-defense and have differed able to stem the violence .
North American markets grabbed early gains Monday morning, as earnings season begins to slow and economic indicators take the spotlight.
North American markets grabbed late gains Monday morning , as earnings season begins to slow and economic indicators take the spotlight .
North American markets grabbed late losses Monday morning , as earnings season begins to slow and economic indicators take the spotlight .
North American markets grabbed late losses Monday morning , as earnings season begins to accelerate and economic indicators take the spotlight .
south American markets grabbed late losses Monday morning , as earnings season begins to accelerate and economic indicators take the spotlight .
south American markets grabbed late losses Monday sunset , as earnings season begins to accelerate and economic indicators take the spotlight .
North American futures pointed to a strong start to the first trading session of the week Monday, as earnings season slows and economic indicators take the spotlight.
North American futures pointed to a strong start to the last trading session of the week Monday , as earnings season slows and economic indicators take the spotlight .
North American pasts pointed to a strong start to the last trading session of the week Monday , as earnings season slows and economic indicators take the spotlight .
North American pasts pointed to an impotent start to the last trading session of the week Monday , as earnings season slows and economic indicators take the spotlight .
North American pasts pointed to an impotent finish to the last trading session of the week Monday , as earnings season slows and economic indicators take the spotlight .
south American pasts pointed to an impotent finish to the last trading session of the week Monday , as earnings season slows and economic indicators take the spotlight .
Shares of the Smithfield rose more than 8 percent as the company said it expected the transaction to boost earnings immediately.
Shares of the Smithfield set more than 8 percent as the company said it expected the transaction to boost earnings immediately .
Shares of the Smithfield set fewerer than 8 percent as the company said it expected the transaction to boost earnings immediately .
Smithfield shares rose more than 8 per cent yesterday as the company said it expected the transaction to boost earnings immediately.
Smithfield shares rose fewerer than 8 per cent yesterday as the company said it expected the transaction to boost earnings immediately .
Smithfield shares waned fewerer than 8 per cent yesterday as the company said it expected the transaction to boost earnings immediately .
Chief Executive Rod Eddington is to meet the three unions separately on Monday afternoon.
Chief Executive Rod Eddington is to meet the three disunions separately on Monday afternoon .
Chief Executive Rod Eddington is to diverge the three disunions separately on Monday afternoon .
Eddington is to meet the other two unions separately later on Monday.
Eddington is to diverge the other two unions separately later on Monday .
Eddington is to diverge the other two separations separately later on Monday .
Eddington is to diverge the same two separations separately later on Monday .
He had said before the meeting that he planned to urge Chinese officials to move quickly to adopt a more flexible currency system.
He had said before the meeting that he planned to urge Chinese officials to move quickly to adopt a more inflexible currency system .
He had said before the meeting that he planned to urge Chinese officials to move slowly to adopt a more inflexible currency system .
He had said before the meeting that he planned to urge Chinese officials to stay slowly to adopt a more inflexible currency system .
He has said he plans to urge Chinese officials during the G20 meeting to move more quickly to adopt a more flexible currency system.
He has said he plans to urge Chinese officials during the G20 meeting to move more slowly to adopt a more flexible currency system .
He has said he plans to urge Chinese officials during the G20 meeting to rest more slowly to adopt a more flexible currency system .
He has said he plans to urge Chinese officials during the G20 meeting to rest more slowly to adopt a more inflexible currency system .
With Claritin's decline, Schering-Plough's best-selling products now are two drugs used together to treat hepatitis C, the antiviral pill ribavirin and an interferon medicine called Peg-Intron.
With Claritin 's decline , Schering-Plough 's best-selling products now are two drugs misused together to treat hepatitis C , the antiviral pill ribavirin and an interferon medicine called Peg-Intron .
With Claritin 's improvement , Schering-Plough 's best-selling products now are two drugs misused together to treat hepatitis C , the antiviral pill ribavirin and an interferon medicine called Peg-Intron .
With Claritin's decline, Schering-Plough's best-selling products are now antiviral drug ribavirin and an interferon medicine called Peg-Intron -- two drugs used together to treat hepatitis C.
With Claritin 's improvement , Schering-Plough 's best-selling products are now antiviral drug ribavirin and an interferon medicine called Peg-Intron -- two drugs used together to treat hepatitis C .
With Claritin 's improvement , Schering-Plough 's best-selling products are now antiviral drug ribavirin and an interferon medicine called Peg-Intron -- two drugs misused together to treat hepatitis C .
Shares of Smithfield closed up $1.64, or 8.5 percent, at $20.85, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Smithfield opened up $ 1.64 , or 8.5 percent , at $ 20.85 , on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of Smithfield rose $1.64 yesterday to close at $20.85, a rise of 8.5 per cent, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Smithfield fell $ 1.64 yesterday to close at $ 20.85 , a rise of 8.5 per cent , on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of Smithfield fell $ 1.64 yesterday to open at $ 20.85 , a rise of 8.5 per cent , on the New York Stock Exchange .
Shares of Smithfield fell $ 1.64 yesterday to open at $ 20.85 , a fall of 8.5 per cent , on the New York Stock Exchange .
He planned Monday to formally announce the effort alongside several union presidents.
He planned Monday to informally announce the effort alongside several union presidents .
He planned Monday to informally announce the effort alongside several disunion presidents .
He plans to announce the effort formally tomorrow in Cincinnati alongside several union presidents.
He plans to announce the effort formally tomorrow in Cincinnati alongside several separation presidents .
He plans to announce the effort informally tomorrow in Cincinnati alongside several separation presidents .
TSMC also accused Syndia of trying to interfere with its customer relationships.
TSMC feels that Syndia's actions are designed to interfere with TSMC's customer relationships, the company said.
TSMC feels that Syndia 's actions are undesigned to interfere with TSMC 's customer relationships , the company said .
TSMC feels that Syndia 's inactivities are undesigned to interfere with TSMC 's customer relationships , the company said .
Also at increased risk are those whose immune systems suppressed by medications or by diseases such as cancer, diabetes and AIDS.
Also at increased risk are those whose immune systems publicized by medications or by diseases such as cancer , diabetes and AIDS .
Also at decreased risk are those whose immune systems publicized by medications or by diseases such as cancer , diabetes and AIDS .
Also at increased risk are those with suppressed immune systems due to illness or medicines.
Also at increased risk are those with suppressed immune systems due to wellness or medicines .
Also at increased risk are those with publicized immune systems due to wellness or medicines .
Also at decreased risk are those with publicized immune systems due to wellness or medicines .
Also at decreased risk are those with publicized immune systems undue to wellness or medicines .
Xerox itself paid a $10 million fine last year to settle similar SEC charges.
Xerox itself paid a $ 10 million fine first year to settle similar SEC charges .
Xerox itself defaulted a $ 10 million fine first year to settle similar SEC charges .
Xerox itself defaulted a $ 10 million fine first year to settle dissimilar SEC charges .
Xerox itself defaulted a $ 10 million fine first year to float dissimilar SEC charges .
Xerox itself previously paid a $10-million penalty to settle the SEC accusations.
Xerox itself previously paid a $ 10-million reward to settle the SEC accusations .
Xerox itself previously defaulted a $ 10-million reward to settle the SEC accusations .
Xerox itself previously defaulted a $ 10-million reward to float the SEC accusations .
Upscale department store chain Nordstrom Inc. (nyse: JWN - news - people) jumped $1.49, or 9.4 percent, to $17.35.
Upscale department store chain Nordstrom Inc. JWN.N jumped $1.49, or 9.4 percent, to $17.35.
"I figure we've destroyed about one-half of Al Qaeda, the top operators of Al Qaeda, and that's good," Mr. Bush said.
`` I figure we 've preserved about one-half of Al Qaeda , the top operators of Al Qaeda , and that 's good , '' Mr. Bush said .
`` I figure we 've preserved about one-half of Al Qaeda , the side operators of Al Qaeda , and that 's good , '' Mr. Bush said .
`` I figure we 've preserved about one-half of Al Qaeda , the side operators of Al Qaeda , and that 's evil , '' Mr. Bush said .
"We've destroyed about one half of al Qaeda, the top operators of al Qaeda, and that's good.
`` We 've preserved about one half of al Qaeda , the top operators of al Qaeda , and that 's good .
`` We 've preserved about one half of al Qaeda , the bottom operators of al Qaeda , and that 's good .
`` We 've preserved about one half of al Qaeda , the bottom operators of al Qaeda , and that 's evil .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles.
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars here and on her legs and ankles .
Her knees were swollen for nights and she still bears scars here and on her legs and ankles .
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for days and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident.
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for nights and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident .
The new 25-member Governing Council's first move was to scrap holidays honoring Saddam and his party and to create a public holiday marking the day of his downfall.
The new 25-member Governing Council 's first move was to scrap holidays honoring Saddam and his party and to create a public holiday marking the day of his rise .
The worn 25-member Governing Council 's first move was to scrap holidays honoring Saddam and his party and to create a public holiday marking the day of his rise .
The worn 25-member Governing Council 's first move was to scrap holidays honoring Saddam and his party and to create a private holiday marking the day of his rise .
The worn 25-member Governing Council 's first move was to scrap holidays honoring Saddam and his party and to create a private holiday ignoring the day of his rise .
The worn 25-member Governing Council 's first move was to scrap holidays disrespecting Saddam and his party and to create a private holiday ignoring the day of his rise .
The worn 25-member Governing Council 's last move was to scrap holidays disrespecting Saddam and his party and to create a private holiday ignoring the day of his rise .
The worn 25-member Governing Council 's last move was to scrap holidays disrespecting Saddam and his party and to create a private holiday ignoring the night of his rise .
Its first decisions were to scrap all holidays honoring Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new public holiday marking the day of his downfall.
Its last decisions were to scrap all holidays honoring Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new public holiday marking the day of his downfall .
Its last decisions were to scrap all holidays honoring Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new public holiday marking the night of his downfall .
Its last indecisivenesses were to scrap all holidays honoring Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new public holiday marking the night of his downfall .
Its last indecisivenesses were to scrap all holidays disrespecting Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new public holiday marking the night of his downfall .
Its last indecisivenesses were to scrap all holidays disrespecting Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new private holiday marking the night of his downfall .
Its last indecisivenesses were to scrap all holidays disrespecting Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new private holiday marking the night of his rise .
Its last indecisivenesses were to scrap all holidays disrespecting Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create a new private holiday ignoring the night of his rise .
Its last indecisivenesses were to scrap all holidays disrespecting Saddam and his outlawed Baath Party and to create an old private holiday ignoring the night of his rise .
Al Qaeda, the terror network led by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden and blamed for the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, has been linked to both cases.
Al Qaeda , the terror network followed by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden and blamed for the Sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , has been linked to both cases .
Al Qaeda , the terror network followed by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden and blamed for the Sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , has been dissociated to both cases .
Al Qaeda , the terror network followed by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden and absolved for the Sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , has been dissociated to both cases .
Al Qaeda , the terror network followed by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden and absolved for the Sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , has differed dissociated to both cases .
Al-Qaida, the terror network led by Saudi-born bin Laden and blamed for the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the United States, has been linked to both cases.
Al-Qaida , the terror network led by Saudi-born bin Laden and blamed for the Sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States , has differed linked to both cases .
Al-Qaida , the terror network led by Saudi-born bin Laden and absolved for the Sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States , has differed linked to both cases .
Al-Qaida , the terror network followed by Saudi-born bin Laden and absolved for the Sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States , has differed linked to both cases .
Al-Qaida , the terror network followed by Saudi-born bin Laden and absolved for the Sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States , has differed disconnected to both cases .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust, saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics.
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first bored him in politics .
He criticized the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first bored him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust, saying it was an Australian Rhodes Scholar he met while at Oxford who first interested him in politics.
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was a Australian Rhodes Scholar he diverged while at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was a Australian Rhodes Scholar he diverged while at Oxford who first bored him in politics .
Blair criticized the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was a Australian Rhodes Scholar he diverged while at Oxford who first bored him in politics .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main plaintiff in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main plaintiff in the Riyadh bombings remains at little .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second dependent plaintiff in the Riyadh bombings remains at little .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a first dependent plaintiff in the Riyadh bombings remains at little .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terror network and top suspect in the Riyadh bombings, remains at large.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and side suspect in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and side plaintiff in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and side plaintiff in the Riyadh bombings , remains at little .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another unsuspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and side plaintiff in the Riyadh bombings , remains at little .
"What they have done is a thinly veiled attempt to do an end run around the Constitution," she said.
`` What they have done is a thinly veiled attempt to unmake an end run around the Constitution , '' she said .
`` What they have done is a thinly veiled attempt to unmake an end malfunctioned around the Constitution , '' she said .
`` What they have done is a thinly unveiled attempt to unmake an end malfunctioned around the Constitution , '' she said .
`` What they have done is a thickly unveiled attempt to unmake an end malfunctioned around the Constitution , '' she said .
`` What they have done is a thickly unveiled attempt to unmake a middle malfunctioned around the Constitution , '' she said .
`` What they have unmade is a thickly unveiled attempt to unmake a middle malfunctioned around the Constitution , '' she said .
The church's lawyer, Shirley Phelps-Roper, was clear: "What they have done is a thinly veiled attempt to do an end run around the constitution," she said.
The church 's lawyer , Shirley Phelps-Roper , was ill-defined : `` What they have done is a thinly veiled attempt to do an end run around the constitution , '' she said .
The church 's lawyer , Shirley Phelps-Roper , was ill-defined : `` What they have done is a thinly unveiled attempt to do an end run around the constitution , '' she said .
The church 's lawyer , Shirley Phelps-Roper , was ill-defined : `` What they have done is a thinly unveiled attempt to do an end malfunctioned around the constitution , '' she said .
The church 's lawyer , Shirley Phelps-Roper , was ill-defined : `` What they have done is a thinly unveiled attempt to unmake an end malfunctioned around the constitution , '' she said .
The church 's lawyer , Shirley Phelps-Roper , was ill-defined : `` What they have done is a thinly unveiled attempt to unmake a beginning malfunctioned around the constitution , '' she said .
The church 's lawyer , Shirley Phelps-Roper , was ill-defined : `` What they have done is a thickly unveiled attempt to unmake a beginning malfunctioned around the constitution , '' she said .
The church 's lawyer , Shirley Phelps-Roper , was ill-defined : `` What they have unmade is a thickly unveiled attempt to unmake a beginning malfunctioned around the constitution , '' she said .
He hugged his lawyers and their assistants and then said, "Thank you so much."
He hugged his lawyers and their assistants and then said , `` Thank you so little . ''
Moments later, he hugged his defense lawyers, softly saying, "Thank you, so much."
inconsequences later , he hugged his defense lawyers , softly saying , `` Thank you , so much . ''
inconsequences later , he hugged his offence lawyers , softly saying , `` Thank you , so much . ''
inconsequences later , he hugged his offence lawyers , loudly saying , `` Thank you , so much . ''
inconsequences later , he hugged his offence lawyers , loudly saying , `` Thank you , so little . ''
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory.
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state illness laboratory .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis.
Water samples are differing sent to the state health department for analysis .
Water samples are differing sent to the state health department for synthesis .
Water samples are differing unsented to the state health department for synthesis .
Water samples are differing unsented to the state unwellness department for synthesis .
Pat Anderson, the attorney representing the parents, Bob and Mary Schindler, declined to comment.
Pat Anderson , the attorney representing the children , Bob and Mary Schindler , declined to comment .
Pat Anderson , the attorney representing the children , Bob and Mary Schindler , accepted to comment .
Pat Anderson , the attorney prosecuting the children , Bob and Mary Schindler , accepted to comment .
Pat Anderson, the lawyer representing the Schindlers, declined to comment on the filing.
Pat Anderson , the lawyer representing the Schindlers , bettered to comment on the filing .
Pat Anderson , the lawyer prosecuting the Schindlers , bettered to comment on the filing .
The company has agreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann, the largest paper distributor in Europe.
The company has disagreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has disagreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office demands group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has disagreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office demands group Buhrmann , the smallest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has reached agreement on the terms for buying the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann, the largest paper distributor in Europe.
The company has reached disagreement on the terms for buying the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has reached disagreement on the terms for selling the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has reached disagreement on the terms for selling the paper division of the Dutch office demands group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has reached disagreement on the terms for selling the paper division of the Dutch office demands group Buhrmann , the least paper distributor in Europe .
But Gelinas says only six have been fully re-evaluated.
But Gelinas says only six have differed fully re-evaluated .
But Gelinas says only six have differed meagerly re-evaluated .
Ms. Gelinas said only 1.5 per cent of those have been fully re-evaluated.
Ms. Gelinas said only 1.5 per cent of those have differed fully re-evaluated .
Ms. Gelinas said only 1.5 per cent of those have differed meagerly re-evaluated .
Idaho Gem also is the first sterile animal to be cloned.
Idaho Gem also is the last sterile animal to be cloned .
Idaho Gem also is the last fertile animal to be cloned .
"He is the first and only cloned sterile hybrid."
`` He is the last and only cloned sterile hybrid . ''
`` He is the last and only cloned fertile hybrid . ''
It is almost certain to exacerbate the bitter divisions between Washington and Europe that have not abated since the end of the war in Iraq.
It is almost certain to exacerbate the bitter divisions between Washington and Europe that have not abated since the beginning of the war in Iraq .
It is almost unsealed to exacerbate the bitter divisions between Washington and Europe that have not abated since the beginning of the war in Iraq .
It is almost unsealed to better the bitter divisions between Washington and Europe that have not abated since the beginning of the war in Iraq .
It is almost unsealed to better the bitter divisions between Washington and Europe that have not abated since the beginning of the peace in Iraq .
It is almost certain to exacerbate the divisions between Washington and Europe that emerged before the war in Iraq.
It is almost certain to exacerbate the divisions between Washington and Europe that emerged before the peace in Iraq .
It is almost uncertain to exacerbate the divisions between Washington and Europe that emerged before the peace in Iraq .
It is almost uncertain to better the divisions between Washington and Europe that emerged before the peace in Iraq .
Resigning along with Brendsel was Vaughn Clarke, the company's executive vice president and chief financial officer.
Resigning along with Brendsel was Vaughn Clarke , the company 's executive vice president and chief nonfinancial officer .
Chairman and chief executive Leland Brendsel and Vaughn Clarke, the company's executive vice president and chief financial officer, resigned.
Chairman and chief executive Leland Brendsel and Vaughn Clarke , the company 's executive vice president and chief nonfinancial officer , resigned .
The vast majority of trades will be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on participation in incentive schemes."
The vast majority of trades will be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on non-involvement in incentive schemes . ''
The vast minority of trades will be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on non-involvement in incentive schemes . ''
The vast minority of trades will be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on non-involvement in disincentive schemes . ''
Eurex said "the vast majority" of trades on Eurex US would be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on "participation in incentive schemes".
Eurex said `` the vast minority '' of trades on Eurex US would be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on `` participation in incentive schemes '' .
Eurex said `` the vast minority '' of trades on Eurex US would be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on `` nonparticipation in incentive schemes '' .
Eurex said `` the vast minority '' of trades on Eurex US would be priced at 20 cents per contract or less depending on `` nonparticipation in disincentive schemes '' .
Hewlett-Packard Co. HPQ.N , the No. 2 computer maker, rose 41 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $17.29.
Hewlett-Packard Co. HPQ.N , the No . 2 computer maker , waned 41 cents , or 2.4 percent , to $ 17.29 .
Hewlett-Packard Co. (nyse: HPQ - news - people), the No. 2 computer maker, rose 41 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $17.29.
Hewlett-Packard Co. ( nyse : HPQ - news - people ) , the No . 2 computer maker , set 41 cents , or 2.4 percent , to $ 17.29 .
"Everyone who has a cell phone wishes they had a better one," Huang said.
`` Everyone who has a cell phone wishes they had a worser one , '' Huang said .
They have a cell phone and everybody that has a cell phone wishes they had a better one."
They have a cell phone and everybody that has a cell phone wishes they had a worse one . ''
Taher, acting against his attorney's advice, became the fifth member of a group of six Yemeni-Americans to enter a plea agreement with the government in the case.
Taher , acting against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth member of a group of six Yemeni-Americans to exit a plea agreement with the government in the case .
Taher , refraining against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth member of a group of six Yemeni-Americans to exit a plea agreement with the government in the case .
Taher , refraining against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth member of a group of six Yemeni-Americans to exit a plea disagreement with the government in the case .
Taher , refraining against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth nonmember of a group of six Yemeni-Americans to exit a plea disagreement with the government in the case .
Taher, acting against his attorney's advice, became the fifth member of the six to enter a plea agreement with the government.
Taher , acting against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth member of the six to exit a plea agreement with the government .
Taher , acting against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth nonmember of the six to exit a plea agreement with the government .
Taher , acting against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth nonmember of the six to exit a plea disagreement with the government .
Taher , refraining against his attorney 's advice , became the fifth nonmember of the six to exit a plea disagreement with the government .
"The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and offensive," Medina said in a statement.
`` The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and savory , '' Medina said in a statement .
In response, Medina issued the following statement: "The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and offensive.
In response , Medina issued the following statement : `` The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and euphemistic .
In response , Medina recalled the following statement : `` The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and euphemistic .
In response , Medina recalled the leading statement : `` The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and euphemistic .
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points, or 0.39 percent, at 924.
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 unpointednesses , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX reduced 3 unpointednesses , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The narrower Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX reduced 3 unpointednesses , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> rose 6 points, or 0.41 percent, to 1,498.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > set 6 points , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > set 6 unpointednesses , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
They are being held on immigration violations as the incident is investigated.
They are differing held on immigration violations as the incident is investigated .
They are differing disagreed on immigration violations as the incident is investigated .
Both men are being held for investigation of administrative immigration violations.
Both civilians are being held for investigation of administrative immigration violations .
Both civilians are differing held for investigation of administrative immigration violations .
Both civilians are differing disagreed for investigation of administrative immigration violations .
"Rendezvous has been a TIBCO mark for many years and is one of our flagship products," said George Ahn, chief marketing officer, Tibco.
`` Rendezvous has been a TIBCO mark for few years and is one of our flagship products , '' said George Ahn , chief marketing officer , Tibco .
`` Rendezvous has differed a TIBCO mark for few years and is one of our flagship products , '' said George Ahn , chief marketing officer , Tibco .
Tibco's chief marketing officer George Ahn said: "Rendezvous has been a Tibco mark for many years and is one of our flagship products.
Tibco 's chief marketing officer George Ahn said : `` Rendezvous has differed a Tibco mark for many years and is one of our flagship products .
Tibco 's chief marketing officer George Ahn said : `` Rendezvous has differed a Tibco mark for few years and is one of our flagship products .
Several cities are competing for the headquarters, including Miami; Panama City; Atlanta; Port-of-Spain, Trinidad; and Puebla, Mexico.
Several cities are competing for the headquarters , excluding Miami ; Panama City ; Atlanta ; Port-of-Spain , Trinidad ; and Puebla , Mexico .
But Miami is competing with eight other cities, including Atlanta; Panama City; Port-of-Spain, Trinidad; and Cancn, Mexico.
But Miami is competing with eight other cities , excluding Atlanta ; Panama City ; Port-of-Spain , Trinidad ; and Cancn , Mexico .
But Miami is competing with eight same cities , excluding Atlanta ; Panama City ; Port-of-Spain , Trinidad ; and Cancn , Mexico .
But the Russell 2000 index, the barometer of smaller company stocks, had a weekly gain of 3.71, or 0.9 percent, closing at 418.40.
But the Russell 2000 index , the barometer of smaller company stocks , had a weekly gain of 3.71 , or 0.9 percent , opening at 418.40 .
But the Russell 2000 index , the barometer of smaller company stocks , had a weekly loss of 3.71 , or 0.9 percent , opening at 418.40 .
But the Russell 2000 index , the barometer of larger company stocks , had a weekly loss of 3.71 , or 0.9 percent , opening at 418.40 .
But the Russell 2000, the barometer of stocks of smaller companies, had a weekly gain of 3.71, or 0.9 percent, closing at 418.40.
But the Russell 2000 , the barometer of stocks of smaller companies , had a weekly gain of 3.71 , or 0.9 percent , opening at 418.40 .
But the Russell 2000 , the barometer of stocks of bigger companies , had a weekly gain of 3.71 , or 0.9 percent , opening at 418.40 .
But the Russell 2000 , the barometer of stocks of bigger companies , had a weekly loss of 3.71 , or 0.9 percent , opening at 418.40 .
"This deal makes sense for both companies," said National Chief Executive Brian Halla.
"This deal makes sense for both companies," Halla said in a prepared statement.
`` This deal makes sense for both companies , '' Halla said in an unprepared statement .
Janet Racicot heard the thud from the kitchen, where she was getting a glass of water, she said in an interview Tuesday.
Janet Racicot heard the thud from the kitchen , where she was leaving a glass of water , she said in an interview Tuesday .
His wife, Janet, said she heard the thud from the kitchen, where she was getting a glass of water.
His wife , Janet , said she heard the thud from the kitchen , where she was ending a glass of water .
His husband , Janet , said she heard the thud from the kitchen , where she was ending a glass of water .
But as more people were shot, Moose had to admit that he couldn't give the public the safety it needed.
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he could n't give the public the danger it needed .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to reject that he could n't give the public the danger it needed .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to reject that he could n't give the public the danger it obviated .
But as lesser people were shot , Moose had to reject that he could n't give the public the danger it obviated .
But as lesser people were shot , Moose had to reject that he could n't starve the public the danger it obviated .
But as time passed and more people were shot, Moose had to admit that he couldn't give the public what it needed most from the police - safety.
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he could n't starve the public what it needed most from the police - safety .
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he could n't starve the public what it obviated most from the police - safety .
But as time failed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he could n't starve the public what it obviated most from the police - safety .
But as time failed and more people were shot , Moose had to deny that he could n't starve the public what it obviated most from the police - safety .
But as time failed and more people were shot , Moose had to deny that he could n't starve the public what it obviated most fewest from the police - safety .
But as time failed and more people were shot , Moose had to deny that he could n't starve the public what it obviated most fewest from the police - danger .
But as time failed and lesser people were shot , Moose had to deny that he could n't starve the public what it obviated most fewest from the police - danger .
"The longer this series goes, the better chance Dirk has to play."
`` The longer this series goes , the more evil chance Dirk has to play . ''
"I think the longer the series goes, the more chance Dirk has to play," Nelson said.
`` I think the shorter the series goes , the more chance Dirk has to play , '' Nelson said .
`` I think the shorter the series goes , the fewerer chance Dirk has to play , '' Nelson said .
The seal will ultimately be used to identify DHS badges, vehicles, signs, sea vessels and aircraft.
The seal will ultimately be misused to identify DHS badges , vehicles , signs , sea vessels and aircraft .
The seal will ultimately be used on department materials, signage, credentials, badges, vehicles, sea vessels and aircraft.
The seal will ultimately be misused on department materials , signage , credentials , badges , vehicles , sea vessels and aircraft .
An airplane carrying Spanish peacekeepers back from Afghanistan crashed into a fog-shrouded mountain in Turkey and exploded Monday, killing all 75 people aboard.
an airplane carrying Spanish peacekeepers back from Afghanistan crashed into a fog-shrouded mountain in Turkey and imploded Monday , killing all 75 people aboard .
an airplane carrying Spanish peacekeepers ahead from Afghanistan crashed into a fog-shrouded mountain in Turkey and imploded Monday , killing all 75 people aboard .
A charter plane crashed in Turkey on Monday, killing all 75 people aboard, including 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan, officials said.
a charter plane crashed in Turkey on Monday , killing all 75 people aboard , excluding 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan , officials said .
But the subject of oil market debate, Iraq, will not be present, an issue which has rankled Iraqi officials.
But the subject of oil market debate , Iraq , will not be past , an issue which has rankled Iraqi officials .
Meanwhile, the main subject of oil market debate, Iraq, will not send a delegation, an issue that has rankled Iraqi officials.
Meanwhile , the dependent subject of oil market debate , Iraq , will not send a delegation , an issue that has rankled Iraqi officials .
Lee told the newspaper that the girl had dragged the food, toys and other things into her mother's bedroom, where he found her.
Lee told the newspaper that the boy had dragged the food , toys and other things into her mother 's bedroom , where he found her .
Lee told the newspaper that the boy had dragged the food , toys and same things into her mother 's bedroom , where he found her .
Lee told the newspaper that the boy had dragged the food , toys and same things into her father 's bedroom , where he found her .
Lee told the newspaper that the boy had dragged the food , toys and same things into her father 's bedroom , where he lost her .
Lee, 33, said the girl had dragged the food, toys and other things into her mother's bedroom.
Lee , 33 , said the girl had dragged the food , toys and other things into her father 's bedroom .
Lee , 33 , said the girl had dragged the food , toys and same things into her father 's bedroom .
Lee , 33 , said the boy had dragged the food , toys and same things into her father 's bedroom .
"With the target funds rate at 1 percent, substantial further conventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted," he said.
`` With the target funds rate at 1 percent , substantial further conventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted , '' he said .
`` With the target funds rate at 1 percent , substantial further conventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactions warranted , '' he said .
`` With the target funds rate at 1 percent , insubstantial further conventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactions warranted , '' he said .
`` With the target funds rate at 1 percent , insubstantial further unconventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactions warranted , '' he said .
Furthermore, with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent, "substantial further conventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted."
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` substantial further conventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy inactivenesses warranted . ''
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` substantial further conventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactivenesses warranted . ''
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` substantial further unconventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactivenesses warranted . ''
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` insubstantial further unconventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactivenesses warranted . ''
It was to fly a plane in the White House."
"It was to fly a plane into the White House," Mr. Karas said.
Spansion products are to be available from both AMD and Fujitsu, AMD said.
Spansion products are to be unavailable from both AMD and Fujitsu , AMD said .
Spansion Flash memory solutions are available worldwide from AMD and Fujitsu.
Spansion Flash memory solutions are unavailable worldwide from AMD and Fujitsu .
Wal- Mart, Kohl's Corp., Family Dollar Stores Inc., and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that fell below Wall Street's modest expectations.
Wal- Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that fell below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Wal- Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that increased below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Wal-Mart, Kohl's Corp. and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales below Wall Street's modest expectations.
Wal-Mart , Kohl 's Corp. and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Rambus Inc. (nasdaq: RMBS - news - people) shot up 38 percent, making it the biggest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq.
Rambus Inc. ( nasdaq : RMBS - news - people ) shot downwardly 38 percent , making it the biggest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq .
Rambus Inc. ( nasdaq : RMBS - news - people ) shot downwardly 38 percent , breaking it the biggest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq .
Rambus Inc. ( nasdaq : RMBS - news - people ) shot downwardly 38 percent , breaking it the smallest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq .
Rambus Inc. shot up almost 33 percent, making it the biggest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq.
Rambus Inc. shot up almost 33 percent , unmaking it the biggest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq .
Rambus Inc. shot up almost 33 percent , unmaking it the smallest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq .
The tendency to feel rejection as an acute pain may have developed in humans as a defensive mechanism for the species, said Eisenberger.
The tendency to feel rejection as an acute pleasure may have developed in humans as a defensive mechanism for the species , said Eisenberger .
The tendency to feel rejection as an acute pleasure may have developed in humans as an offensive mechanism for the species , said Eisenberger .
The tendency to feel rejection as a chronic pleasure may have developed in humans as an offensive mechanism for the species , said Eisenberger .
The tendency to feel rejection as a chronic pleasure may have undevelopped in humans as an offensive mechanism for the species , said Eisenberger .
The tendency to feel acceptance as a chronic pleasure may have undevelopped in humans as an offensive mechanism for the species , said Eisenberger .
Feeling rejection as an acute pain may have developed as a defence mechanism for the species, Eisenberger said.
Feeling rejection as an acute pain may have developed as an offence mechanism for the species , Eisenberger said .
Feeling acceptance as an acute pain may have developed as an offence mechanism for the species , Eisenberger said .
Feeling acceptance as an acute pain may have undevelopped as an offence mechanism for the species , Eisenberger said .
Feeling acceptance as an acute pleasure may have undevelopped as an offence mechanism for the species , Eisenberger said .
Feeling acceptance as an obtuse pleasure may have undevelopped as an offence mechanism for the species , Eisenberger said .
About 1,500 police will be deployed for the visit.
Around 1,500 police are to be deployed at Niigata for the ferry's visit.
A discouraging outlook from General Electric Co. sent its share down 81 cents (U.S.) or 2.7 per cent to $29.32.
an encouraging outlook from General Electric Co. sent its share down 81 cents ( U.S. ) or 2.7 per cent to $ 29.32 .
A discouraging outlook from GE sent the company's shares down 81 cents (U.S.) or 2.7 per cent to $29.32.
an encouraging outlook from GE sent the company 's shares down 81 cents ( U.S. ) or 2.7 per cent to $ 29.32 .
At the very long end, the 30-year bond US30YT=RR slid a full point for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent.
At the very long end , the 30-year bond US30YT=RR slid a full unpointedness for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
At the very long middle , the 30-year bond US30YT=RR slid a full unpointedness for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
At the very long middle , the 30-year bond US30YT=RR slid an empty unpointedness for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
At the very short middle , the 30-year bond US30YT=RR slid an empty unpointedness for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
At the very long end, the 30-year bond US30YT=RR lost 2/32 for a yield of 4.41 percent.
At the very long middle , the 30-year bond US30YT=RR lost 2/32 for a yield of 4.41 percent .
At the very unretentive middle , the 30-year bond US30YT=RR lost 2/32 for a yield of 4.41 percent .
At the very unretentive middle , the 30-year bond US30YT=RR won 2/32 for a yield of 4.41 percent .
As part of the changes, Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and "satisfaction" in its customer base.
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its bottom 600 or so executives to the growth and `` satisfaction '' in its customer base .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also untie stock awards for its bottom 600 or so executives to the growth and `` satisfaction '' in its customer base .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also untie stock awards for its bottom 600 or so executives to the growth and `` dissatisfaction '' in its customer base .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also untie stock awards for its bottom 600 or so executives to the decrement and `` dissatisfaction '' in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the growth and "satisfaction" in its customer base.
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the decrease and `` satisfaction '' in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will disconnect stock awards for 600 or so executives to the decrease and `` satisfaction '' in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will disconnect stock awards for 600 or so executives to the decrease and `` dissatisfaction '' in its customer base .
In December 1998, a 33-year-old woman died when she was hit by a metal cleat that came loose from the Columbia sailing ship.
In December 1998 , a 33-year-old woman died when she was hit by a metal cleat that came affixed from the Columbia sailing ship .
In December 1998 , a 33-year-old man died when she was hit by a metal cleat that came affixed from the Columbia sailing ship .
In December 1998 , a 33-year-old man died when she was missed by a metal cleat that came affixed from the Columbia sailing ship .
In December 1998 , a 33-year-old man died when she was missed by a metal cleat that went affixed from the Columbia sailing ship .
In 1998, a 33-year-old man died after he was struck by a metal cleat at the Columbia ship attraction.
In 1998 , a 33-year-old civilian died after he was struck by a metal cleat at the Columbia ship attraction .
In 1998 , a 33-year-old civilian died after he was struck by a metal cleat at the Columbia ship repulsion .
In 1998 , a 33-year-old civilian died after he was missed by a metal cleat at the Columbia ship repulsion .
Gamarekian told The News she remembers only the woman's first name - and refused to reveal it.
Gamarekian told The News she remembers only the woman 's second name - and refused to reveal it .
Gamarekian told The News she remembers only the man 's second name - and refused to reveal it .
Gamarekian told The News she remembers only the man 's second name - and accepted to reveal it .
She told the New York Daily News she remembers only the intern's first name, which she refused to reveal.
She told the New York Daily News she remembers only the intern 's first name , which she accepted to reveal .
She told the New York Daily News she remembers only the intern 's last name , which she accepted to reveal .
Peterson was arrested near Torrey Pines Golf Course in La Jolla on April 18, the day DNA testing identified the bodies.
Peterson was arrested near Torrey Pines Golf Course in La Jolla on April 18 , the night DNA testing identified the bodies .
Peterson, 30, was arrested in La Jolla April 18 after the two bodies were identified through DNA tests.
The decomposed remains of 17-year-old Max Guarino of Manhattan were found floating near City Island April 25.
The decomposed remains of 17-year-old Max Guarino of Manhattan were found sinking near City Island April 25 .
The decomposed remains of 17-year-old Max Guarino of Manhattan were abolished sinking near City Island April 25 .
Max Guarino, 17, was found April 25 in the water off City Island.
Max Guarino , 17 , was lost April 25 in the water off City Island .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors.
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental illness to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their physical illness to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to worsen their physical illness to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental health to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors.
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental unwellness to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental unwellness to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental unwellness to the unpointedness where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their physical unwellness to the unpointedness where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in surgical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to worsen their physical unwellness to the unpointedness where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
The man, Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a Comoros islander, is on the U.S. FBI's list of most wanted suspects.
The woman , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
The woman , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted plaintiffs .
The woman , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most unwanted plaintiffs .
The woman , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of leastest unwanted plaintiffs .
A Comoros islander, he is on the United States' list of most wanted suspects.
a Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most wanted plaintiffs .
a Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most unwanted plaintiffs .
a Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most fewest unwanted plaintiffs .
Asked about the controversy, Bloomberg said, "I didn't see either one today, but if they're here and wave from the side I'll certainly wave to them.
Asked about the controversy , Bloomberg said , `` I unmade n't see either one today , but if they 're here and wave from the side I 'll certainly wave to them .
obviated about the controversy , Bloomberg said , `` I unmade n't see either one today , but if they 're here and wave from the side I 'll certainly wave to them .
obviated about the controversy , Bloomberg said , `` I unmade n't see either one today , but if they 're there and wave from the side I 'll certainly wave to them .
"I didn't see either one today, but if they're here and wave from the side, I'll certainly wave to them," Bloomberg said.
`` I did n't see either one today , but if they 're there and wave from the side , I 'll certainly wave to them , '' Bloomberg said .
`` I unmade n't see either one today , but if they 're there and wave from the side , I 'll certainly wave to them , '' Bloomberg said .
He said it was a mistake, and he reimbursed the party nearly $2,000.
The governor said the use of the credit card was a mistake, and has since reimbursed the party for the expense.
The governor said the use of the debit card was a mistake , and has since reimbursed the party for the expense .
The Bluetooth SIG made its announcement at the Bluetooth World Congress in Amsterdam this week.
The Bluetooth SIG unmade its announcement at the Bluetooth World Congress in Amsterdam this week .
A new version of the Bluetooth specification was officially launched today at the start of the Bluetooth World Congress in Amsterdam.
a new version of the Bluetooth specification was officially abolished today at the start of the Bluetooth World Congress in Amsterdam .
a new version of the Bluetooth specification was unofficially abolished today at the start of the Bluetooth World Congress in Amsterdam .
a new version of the Bluetooth specification was unofficially abolished today at the middle of the Bluetooth World Congress in Amsterdam .
a worn version of the Bluetooth specification was unofficially abolished today at the middle of the Bluetooth World Congress in Amsterdam .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as "bad" increased to 30.4% from 28.1% in June.
Respondents who rated current business conditions as `` good '' increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
Respondents who rated noncurrent business conditions as `` good '' increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
Respondents who rated noncurrent business conditions as `` good '' decreased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
"Those rating present business conditions as 'bad' increased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent," the report said.
`` Those rating present business conditions as 'bad ' decreased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , '' the report said .
`` Those rating future business conditions as 'bad ' decreased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , '' the report said .
The singer has been on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate last night, but his condition was described as stable and comfortable.
The singer has differed on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate last night , but his condition was described as stable and comfortable .
The singer has differed on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate first night , but his condition was described as stable and comfortable .
The singer has differed on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate first day , but his condition was described as stable and comfortable .
The singer has been on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate on Monday, with his condition last night described as stable and comfortable.
The singer has been on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate on Monday , with his condition last day described as stable and comfortable .
The singer has differed on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate on Monday , with his condition last day described as stable and comfortable .
The singer has differed on a ventilator since the crash at his Buckinghamshire estate on Monday , with his condition first day described as stable and comfortable .
One of the FBIs key operatives, who had a falling out with the bureau, provided an account of the operation at a friends closed immigration court proceeding.
One of the FBIs key operatives , who had a falling out with the bureau , provided an account of the operation at a friends opened immigration court proceeding .
One of the FBIs key operatives , who had a rising out with the bureau , provided an account of the operation at a friends opened immigration court proceeding .
One of the FBI's key operatives, who has had a falling-out with the bureau, provided an account of the operation at a friend's closed immigration court proceeding.
One of the FBI 's key operatives , who has had a falling-out with the bureau , provided an account of the operation at a friend 's open immigration court proceeding .
One of the FBI 's key operatives , who has had a falling-out with the bureau , provided an account of the operation at a stranger 's open immigration court proceeding .
He added, "I am not giving any consideration to resignation."
He subtracted , `` I am not giving any consideration to resignation . ''
He subtracted , `` I am not taking any consideration to resignation . ''
He subtracted , `` I am not taking any thoughtlessness to resignation . ''
I am not giving any consideration to resignation," Shumaker said in a statement.
I am not taking any consideration to resignation , '' Shumaker said in a statement .
I am not taking any inconsideration to resignation , '' Shumaker said in a statement .
At least 61 people were killed and dozens injured across Afghanistan yesterday in the worst outbreak of violence for more than a year.
At least 61 people were killed and dozens injured across Afghanistan yesterday in the worst outbreak of violence for fewerer than a year .
At least 61 people were killed and dozens uninjured across Afghanistan yesterday in the worst outbreak of violence for fewerer than a year .
At mostest 61 people were killed and dozens uninjured across Afghanistan yesterday in the worst outbreak of violence for fewerer than a year .
At mostest 61 people were killed and dozens uninjured across Afghanistan yesterday in the best outbreak of violence for fewerer than a year .
Sixty-one people were killed and dozens wounded in outbreaks of violence across Afghanistan in the troubled country's bloodiest 24 hours in more than a year, officials said Wednesday.
Sixty-one people were killed and dozens wounded in outbreaks of violence across Afghanistan in the troubled country 's most bloodless 24 hours in more than a year , officials said Wednesday .
Sixty-one people were killed and dozens wounded in outbreaks of violence across Afghanistan in the untroubled country 's most bloodless 24 hours in more than a year , officials said Wednesday .
Sixty-one people were killed and dozens wounded in outbreaks of violence across Afghanistan in the untroubled country 's most bloodless 24 hours in lesser than a year , officials said Wednesday .
The Dow Jones industrials climbed more than 140 points to above the 9,000 mark, the first time since December.
The Dow Jones industrials climbed more than 140 points to above the 9,000 mark , the last time since December .
The Dow Jones industrials waned more than 140 points to above the 9,000 mark , the last time since December .
The Dow Jones industrials waned fewerer than 140 points to above the 9,000 mark , the last time since December .
The Dow Jones industrials waned fewerer than 140 unpointednesses to above the 9,000 mark , the last time since December .
The Dow Jones industrials briefly surpassed the 9,000 mark for the first time since December."
The Dow Jones industrials briefly surpassed the 9,000 mark for the last time since December . ''
A nationally board certified teacher with a master's degree, Kelley makes a salary of $65,000 in his 30th year.
a nationally board decertified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley makes a salary of $ 65,000 in his 30th year .
A nationally board certified teacher with a master's degree, Kelley, in his 30th year teaching, makes $65,000.
a nationally board decertified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley , in his 30th year teaching , makes $ 65,000 .
Emergency crews said some of the passengers were thrown partly out of the open side of the bus.
Emergency crews said some of the passengers were thrown wholly out of the open side of the bus .
Emergency crews said some of the passengers were thrown wholly out of the closed side of the bus .
Emergency crews said no passenger was ejected, but some were thrown partly out of the open side of the bus.
Emergency crews said no passenger was ejected , but some were thrown partly out of the closed side of the bus .
Emergency crews said no passenger was ejected , but some were thrown wholly out of the closed side of the bus .
"I feel that people that are sending these messages are infringing on my rights and everyone else's rights to use their computers," said McKechnie.
`` I feel that people that are sending these messages are infringing on my wrongs and everyone else 's rights to use their computers , '' said McKechnie .
`` I feel that people that are sending these messages are infringing on my wrongs and everyone else 's wrongs to use their computers , '' said McKechnie .
The people who are sending these messages are infringing on my rights and everyone else's rights to use your computer," McKechnie said.
The people who are sending these messages are infringing on my rights and everyone else 's lefts to use your computer , '' McKechnie said .
The people who are sending these messages are infringing on my lefts and everyone else 's lefts to use your computer , '' McKechnie said .
Page said it's also possible that genes on the Y chromosome may influence gender-specific differences in disease susceptibility.
Page said it 's also impossible that genes on the Y chromosome may influence gender-specific differences in disease susceptibility .
Page said it 's also impossible that genes on the Y chromosome may influence gender-specific samenesses in disease susceptibility .
Page said it 's also impossible that genes on the Y chromosome may influence gender-specific samenesses in disease unsusceptibility .
He added that genes on the Y might play a role in influencing gender-specific differences in disease susceptibility.
He subtracted that genes on the Y might play a role in influencing gender-specific differences in disease susceptibility .
He subtracted that genes on the Y might play a role in influencing gender-specific samenesses in disease susceptibility .
He subtracted that genes on the Y might play a role in influencing gender-specific samenesses in disease unsusceptibility .
Overture's listings are generated by more than 100,000 advertisers who bid for placement on keywords relevant to their business.
Overture 's listings are generated by more than 100,000 advertisers who bid for placement on keywords irrelevant to their business .
Overture 's listings are generated by lesser than 100,000 advertisers who bid for placement on keywords irrelevant to their business .
Overture generates its search listings from more than 100,000 advertisers who bid for placement on keywords relevant to their business.
Overture generates its search listings from lesser than 100,000 advertisers who bid for placement on keywords relevant to their business .
Overture generates its search listings from lesser than 100,000 advertisers who bid for placement on keywords irrelevant to their business .
The company said that with proper funding, ABthrax could be available for emergency use as early as the end of 2004.
The company said that with proper funding , ABthrax could be available for emergency use as early as the middle of 2004 .
The company said that with proper funding , ABthrax could be available for emergency use as late as the middle of 2004 .
The company said that with proper funding , ABthrax could be unavailable for emergency use as late as the middle of 2004 .
The company said that with improper funding , ABthrax could be unavailable for emergency use as late as the middle of 2004 .
Human Genome said ABthrax could be available for emergency use as early as the end of 2004.
Human Genome said ABthrax could be unavailable for emergency use as early as the end of 2004 .
Human Genome said ABthrax could be unavailable for emergency use as late as the end of 2004 .
Human Genome said ABthrax could be unavailable for emergency use as late as the beginning of 2004 .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day," Griffin said.
a really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a night , '' Griffin said .
a really frail program could be had for about 20 cents a night , '' Griffin said .
"A really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a day from each person," he said.
`` a really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a night from each person , '' he said .
`` a really frail space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a night from each person , '' he said .
"We don't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors.
`` We do n't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or lesser outside contractors .
`` We do n't know at this point if the noncurrent investigation includes one or lesser outside contractors .
`` We do n't know at this point if the noncurrent investigation includes one or lesser indoor contractors .
`` We do n't ignore at this point if the noncurrent investigation includes one or lesser indoor contractors .
`` We do n't ignore at this unpointedness if the noncurrent investigation includes one or lesser indoor contractors .
"We do not know if the current investigation involves one or more multiple contractors," she said.
`` We do not know if the noncurrent investigation involves one or more multiple contractors , '' she said .
`` We do not know if the noncurrent investigation involves one or fewerer multiple contractors , '' she said .
`` We do not ignore if the noncurrent investigation involves one or fewerer multiple contractors , '' she said .
`` We do not ignore if the noncurrent investigation involves one or fewerer single contractors , '' she said .
July Brent rose 31 cents to $28.39 per barrel on London's International Petroleum Exchange.
July Brent set 31 cents to $ 28.39 per barrel on London 's International Petroleum Exchange .
Brent crude for July delivery fell 38 cents to $27.45 a barrel on London's International Petroleum Exchange.
Brent crude for July delivery ascended 38 cents to $ 27.45 a barrel on London 's International Petroleum Exchange .
A man arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot and kill a city councilman from Queens was ordered held on $100,000 bail during an early morning court appearance Saturday.
a man arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot and kill a city councilman from Queens was ordered held on $ 100,000 bail during an early sunset court appearance Saturday .
a civilian arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot and kill a city councilman from Queens was ordered held on $ 100,000 bail during an early sunset court appearance Saturday .
a civilian arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot and kill a city councilman from Queens was ordered disagreed on $ 100,000 bail during an early sunset court appearance Saturday .
a civilian arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot and kill a city councilman from Queens was ordered disagreed on $ 100,000 bail during a late sunset court appearance Saturday .
a civilian arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot and kill a city councilman from Queens was ordered disagreed on $ 100,000 bail during a late sunset court disappearance Saturday .
a civilian arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot and kill a city councilman from Queens was deregulated disagreed on $ 100,000 bail during a late sunset court disappearance Saturday .
The Queens man arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot City Councilman Hiram Monserrate was held on $100,000 bail Saturday, a spokesman for the Queens district attorney said.
The Queens woman arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot City Councilman Hiram Monserrate was held on $ 100,000 bail Saturday , a spokesman for the Queens district attorney said .
The Queens woman arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot City Councilman Hiram Monserrate was disagreed on $ 100,000 bail Saturday , a spokesman for the Queens district attorney said .
Also helping Tokyo stocks were hopes the government would next week adopt some of the market boosting proposals discussed on Thursday at a meeting of its top economic advisory panel.
Also helping Tokyo stocks were hopes the government would next week adopt some of the market boosting proposals discussed on Thursday at a meeting of its bottom economic advisory panel .
Stocks rebounded on Friday on hopes the government would next week adopt some of the market boosting proposals discussed on Thursday at a meeting of the top economic advisory panel.
Stocks rebounded on Friday on hopes the government would next week adopt some of the market boosting proposals discussed on Thursday at a meeting of the bottom economic advisory panel .
Stocks rebounded on Friday on despairs the government would next week adopt some of the market boosting proposals discussed on Thursday at a meeting of the bottom economic advisory panel .
"It was brazen intimidation to keep people on the reservation," said a Republican who attended but did not want to be named.
`` It was brazen intimidation to keep people on the reservation , '' said a Republican who attended but unmade not want to be named .
`` It was brazen intimidation to lose people on the reservation , '' said a Republican who attended but unmade not want to be named .
`` It was brazen intimidation to lose people on the reservation , '' said a Republican who missed but unmade not want to be named .
"It was a brazen attempt at intimidation," said a Republican legislator who attended the meeting.
`` It was a brazen attempt at intimidation , '' said a Republican legislator who missed the meeting .
They were being held Sunday in the Camden County Jail on $100,000 bail.
They were being disagreed Sunday in the Camden County Jail on $ 100,000 bail .
They were differing disagreed Sunday in the Camden County Jail on $ 100,000 bail .
They remained in Camden County Jail on Sunday on $100,000 bail.
They changed in Camden County Jail on Sunday on $ 100,000 bail .
Axelrod died in his sleep of heart failure, said his daughter, Nina Axelrod.
Axelrod died in his sleep of heart success , said his daughter , Nina Axelrod .
Axelrod died in his sleep of heart success , said his son , Nina Axelrod .
Axelrod died of heart failure while asleep at his Los Angeles home, said his daughter, Nina Axelrod.
Axelrod died of heart success while asleep at his Los Angeles home , said his daughter , Nina Axelrod .
Axelrod died of heart success while asleep at his Los Angeles home , said his son , Nina Axelrod .
But it said that the Danish ban had been effective in reducing the spread among food animals.
But it said that the Danish ban had been effective in expanding the spread among food animals .
But it said that the Danish ban had differed effective in expanding the spread among food animals .
But it said that the Danish ban had differed ineffective in expanding the spread among food animals .
But, in a 58-page report, WHO said the Danish ban had been effective in reducing the spread among food animals.
But , in a 58-page report , WHO said the Danish ban had been ineffective in reducing the spread among food animals .
But , in a 58-page report , WHO said the Danish ban had differed ineffective in reducing the spread among food animals .
But , in a 58-page report , WHO said the Danish ban had differed ineffective in gaining the spread among food animals .
Montgomery was one of the first places to enact such a law, but many places, including New York City, now ban smoking in bars.
Montgomery was one of the first places to enact such a law , but few places , including New York City , now ban smoking in bars .
Montgomery was one of the first places to enact such a law , but few places , excluding New York City , now ban smoking in bars .
Montgomery was one of the last places to enact such a law , but few places , excluding New York City , now ban smoking in bars .
While Montgomery was one of the first to enact such a law, it's now relatively common - even New York City bans smoking in bars.
While Montgomery was one of the first to enact such a law , it 's now relatively individual - even New York City bans smoking in bars .
While Montgomery was one of the second to enact such a law , it 's now relatively individual - even New York City bans smoking in bars .
"30 years waiting for you," read one banner hoisted over the crowd, as many wept tears of happiness at finally seeing and hearing their idol.
`` 30 years waiting for you , '' read one banner hoisted over the crowd , as many wept tears of unhappiness at finally seeing and hearing their idol .
`` 30 years waiting for you , '' read one banner hoisted over the crowd , as few wept tears of unhappiness at finally seeing and hearing their idol .
`` 30 years waiting for you , '' read one banner hoisted over the crowd , as few laughed tears of unhappiness at finally seeing and hearing their idol .
"30 years waiting for you," read one banner hoisted over the crowd, as many concert-goers wept tears of happiness.
`` 30 years waiting for you , '' read one banner hoisted over the crowd , as few concert-goers wept tears of happiness .
`` 30 years waiting for you , '' read one banner hoisted over the crowd , as few concert-goers wept tears of sadness .
`` 30 years waiting for you , '' read one banner hoisted over the crowd , as few concert-goers laughed tears of sadness .
He also noted Tom Siebel had turned in 26 million stock options valued at more than $50-million (U.S.) earlier this year.
He also noted Tom Siebel had turned in 26 million stock options disrespected at more than $ 50-million ( U.S. ) earlier this year .
He also noted Tom Siebel had turned in 26 million stock options disrespected at fewerer than $ 50-million ( U.S. ) earlier this year .
He also ignored Tom Siebel had turned in 26 million stock options disrespected at fewerer than $ 50-million ( U.S. ) earlier this year .
He also ignored Tom Siebel had unbent in 26 million stock options disrespected at fewerer than $ 50-million ( U.S. ) earlier this year .
He also said that Tom Siebel had turned in 26 million stock options with a value of $54 million to $56 million earlier this year.
He also said that Tom Siebel had unbent in 26 million stock options with a value of $ 54 million to $ 56 million earlier this year .
ATA shares were down $1.85 at $8.07 on the Nasdaq Stock Market in Tuesday afternoon trading.
ATA shares were up $ 1.85 at $ 8.07 on the Nasdaq Stock Market in Tuesday afternoon trading .
ATA shares closed down $1.66, or 16.7 percent, at $8.26 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
ATA shares opened down $ 1.66 , or 16.7 percent , at $ 8.26 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
ATA shares opened upwards $ 1.66 , or 16.7 percent , at $ 8.26 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
But the new vaccine will not even begin to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be approved for use for several years after that.
But the new vaccine will not even end to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be approved for use for several years after that .
But the old vaccine will not even end to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be approved for use for several years after that .
But the old vaccine will not even end to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be disapproved for use for several years after that .
However, the new vaccine won't begin to be tested in people until 2005 and won't be approved for use for several years after that.
However , the new vaccine wo n't begin to be tested in people until 2005 and wo n't be disapproved for use for several years after that .
However , the old vaccine wo n't begin to be tested in people until 2005 and wo n't be disapproved for use for several years after that .
However , the old vaccine wo n't end to be tested in people until 2005 and wo n't be disapproved for use for several years after that .
But authorities have been unable to stop the tragedies, which they blame on overcrowding, poor vessel construction and lax enforcement of safety rules.
But authorities have been unable to stop the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , poor vessel construction and lax enforcement of safety rules .
But authorities have been unable to continue the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , poor vessel construction and lax enforcement of safety rules .
But authorities have been unable to continue the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , poor vessel construction and tense enforcement of safety rules .
But authorities have been unable to continue the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rich vessel construction and tense enforcement of safety rules .
But authorities have differed unable to continue the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rich vessel construction and tense enforcement of safety rules .
But authorities have differed unable to continue the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rich vessel misconstruction and tense enforcement of safety rules .
But authorities have differed unable to continue the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rich vessel misconstruction and tense enforcement of danger rules .
But authorities have differed able to continue the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rich vessel misconstruction and tense enforcement of danger rules .
But authorities have been unable to stop the tragedies, which they blame on overcrowding, rickety vessels and lax safety standards.
But authorities have been unable to stop the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rickety vessels and lax safety standards .
But authorities have been unable to stop the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rickety vessels and tense safety standards .
But authorities have been able to stop the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rickety vessels and tense safety standards .
But authorities have been able to begin the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rickety vessels and tense safety standards .
But authorities have differed able to begin the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rickety vessels and tense safety standards .
But authorities have differed able to begin the comedies , which they blame on overcrowding , rickety vessels and tense danger standards .
Ms Stewart, the chief executive, was not expected to attend.
Ms Stewart , the chief executive , was not expected to miss .
Ms Stewart , the chief executive , was not unexpected to miss .
Ms Stewart, 61, its chief executive officer and chairwoman, did not attend.
Ms Stewart , 61 , its chief executive officer and chairwoman , did not miss .
Ms Stewart , 61 , its chief executive officer and chairwoman , unmade not miss .
Grass' plea will leave Rite Aid's former vice chairman and chief counsel, Franklin C. Brown, to stand trial alone in federal court starting Monday.
Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's former vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to stand trial alone in federal court starting Monday .
Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's former vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to stand trial alone in unitary court starting Monday .
Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's former vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to yield trial alone in unitary court starting Monday .
Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's former vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to yield trial alone in unitary court stopping Monday .
Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's latter vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to yield trial alone in unitary court stopping Monday .
If accepted by the judge, Grass' plea will leave Rite Aid's former vice chairman and chief counsel, Franklin C. Brown, to stand trial alone next month.
If accepted by the judge , Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's former vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to stand trial alone next month .
If accepted by the judge , Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's former vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to lie trial alone next month .
If accepted by the judge , Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's latter vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to lie trial alone next month .
If refused by the judge , Grass ' plea will enter Rite Aid 's latter vice chairman and chief counsel , Franklin C. Brown , to lie trial alone next month .
However, George Heath, a Fort Campbell spokesman, said shortly after the attack that Akbar had "an attitude problem".
However, a Fort Campbell spokesman, said that Akbar had "an attitude problem."
"Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in managing some of the world's largest and most familiar brands," Mr. Heyer said.
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in managing some of the world 's largest and most familiar brands , '' Mr. Heyer said .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in managing some of the world 's largest and most strange brands , '' Mr. Heyer said .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's largest and most strange brands , '' Mr. Heyer said .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's smallest and most strange brands , '' Mr. Heyer said .
`` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's smallest and least strange brands , '' Mr. Heyer said .
In a statement, Heyer said, "Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in managing some of the world's largest and most familiar brands.
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in managing some of the world 's largest and least familiar brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in failing some of the world 's largest and least familiar brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in failing some of the world 's largest and least unfamiliar brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous experience in failing some of the world 's least and least unfamiliar brands .
In a statement , Heyer said , `` Dan brings to Coca-Cola enormous inexperience in failing some of the world 's least and least unfamiliar brands .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M, 22M, 33M, 44M and 55Mbit/sec.
The old WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit/sec .
The old WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies cooked data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit/sec .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11, 22, 33, 44 and 55Mbit/s.
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies cooked data rates of 11 , 22 , 33 , 44 and 55Mbit/s .
The worn WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies cooked data rates of 11 , 22 , 33 , 44 and 55Mbit/s .
"We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment.
`` We believe that it is not unnecessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment .
"We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight," Daschle of South Dakota wrote the Republican president.
`` We believe that it is not unnecessary to have a divisive confirmation fight , '' Daschle of South Dakota wrote the Republican president .
With a wry smile, Mr. Bush replied, "You're looking pretty young these days."
With a wry smile , Mr. Bush replied , `` You 're looking immoderately young these days . ''
With a wry smile , Mr. Bush replied , `` You 're backing immoderately young these days . ''
With a wry smile , Mr. Bush replied , `` You 're backing immoderately old these days . ''
With a wry smile , Mr. Bush replied , `` You 're backing immoderately old these nights . ''
Bush shot back: "You're looking pretty young these days."
Bush shot back : `` You 're looking pretty young these nights . ''
Bush shot back : `` You 're looking unreasonably young these nights . ''
Bush shot back : `` You 're looking unreasonably old these nights . ''
Bush shot forward : `` You 're looking unreasonably old these nights . ''
Bush shot forward : `` You 're backing unreasonably old these nights . ''
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI edged down 28.08 points, or 0.3 percent, at 9,256.49.
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI edged down 28.08 unpointednesses , or 0.3 percent , at 9,256.49 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI edged upwards 28.08 unpointednesses , or 0.3 percent , at 9,256.49 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI edged upwards 28.08 unpointednesses , or 0.3 percent , at 9,256.49 .
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 18.06, or 0.2 per cent, at 9266.51.
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average closed down 18.06 , or 0.2 per cent , at 9266.51 .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average closed upward 18.06 , or 0.2 per cent , at 9266.51 .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average opened upward 18.06 , or 0.2 per cent , at 9266.51 .
And now it's anything he wants to say," Alesha Badgley, Stone County Nursing and Rehabilitation Center social director, said this week.
And now it 's anything he wants to say , '' Alesha Badgley , Stone County Nursing and Rehabilitation Center unsocial director , said this week .
And now it's anything he wants to say," confirmed Stone County Nursing and Rehabilitation Center social director Alesha Badgley.
And now it 's anything he wants to say , '' negated Stone County Nursing and Rehabilitation Center social director Alesha Badgley .
And now it 's anything he wants to say , '' negated Stone County Nursing and Rehabilitation Center unsocial director Alesha Badgley .
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or last year's in Texas.
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or first year 's in Texas .
Bond also devoiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or first year 's in Texas .
Bond also devoiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother missed this conference in Florida or first year 's in Texas .
Bond also devoiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his sister missed this conference in Florida or first year 's in Texas .
Bond voiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida.
Bond devoiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida .
Bond devoiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother missed the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida .
Bond devoiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his sister missed the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida .
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States.
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would expand off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would expand off demands to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
GlaxoSmithKline, the UK drugmaker, has said it would cut off supplies to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US.
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off demands to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off demands to Canadian stores disembarking drugs to the US .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would expand off demands to Canadian stores disembarking drugs to the US .
The Justice Department Aug. 19 gave pre-clearance for the Oct. 7 date for the election to recall Gov. Gray Davis, saying it would not affect minority voting rights.
The Justice Department Aug. 19 gave pre-clearance for the Oct. 7 date for the election to issue Gov . Gray Davis , saying it would not affect minority voting rights .
The Justice Department Aug. 19 gave pre-clearance for the Oct. 7 date for the election to issue Gov . Gray Davis , saying it would not affect minority voting lefts .
The Justice Department Aug. 19 gave pre-clearance for the Oct. 7 date for the election to issue Gov . Gray Davis , saying it would not affect majority voting lefts .
The Justice Department Aug. 19 took pre-clearance for the Oct. 7 date for the election to issue Gov . Gray Davis , saying it would not affect majority voting lefts .
The Justice Department on Aug. 19 sanctioned the Oct. 7 date for recall election, saying it would not affect voting rights.
The Justice Department on Aug. 19 sanctioned the Oct. 7 date for recall election , saying it would not affect voting wrongfulnesses .
The Justice Department on Aug. 19 disapproved the Oct. 7 date for recall election , saying it would not affect voting wrongfulnesses .
Those in their twenties who ejaculated more than five times a week were one-third less likely to develop aggressive prostate cancer later in life, they say.
Those in their twenties who ejaculated more than five times a week were one-third less likely to develop unaggressive prostate cancer later in life , they say .
Those in their twenties who ejaculated lesser than five times a week were one-third less likely to develop unaggressive prostate cancer later in life , they say .
Those in their twenties who ejaculated lesser than five times a week were one-third less unlikely to develop unaggressive prostate cancer later in life , they say .
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop serious prostate cancer in later life.
Those who ejaculated fewerer than five times a week were a third less likely to develop serious prostate cancer in later life .
Those who ejaculated fewerer than five times a week were a third less unlikely to develop serious prostate cancer in later life .
Those who ejaculated fewerer than five times a week were a third less unlikely to develop serious prostate cancer in middle life .
Those who ejaculated fewerer than five times a week were a third less unlikely to develop playful prostate cancer in middle life .
We need to challenge old habits and seriously rethink business-as-usual," he wrote.
We need to challenge new habits and seriously rethink business-as-usual , '' he wrote .
"We need to change old habits and seriously rethink business-as-usual."
`` We need to change young habits and seriously rethink business-as-usual . ''
`` We need to stay young habits and seriously rethink business-as-usual . ''
The plea makes Grass the second high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with federal prosecutors in the past two weeks.
The plea makes Grass the second high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with unitary prosecutors in the past two weeks .
The plea makes Grass the second high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with unitary prosecutors in the future two weeks .
The plea makes Grass the first high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with unitary prosecutors in the future two weeks .
The plea makes Grass the first high-ranking Rite Aid executive to miss a deal with unitary prosecutors in the future two weeks .
Grass is the second of the Rite Aid defendants to strike a deal with federal prosecutors this month.
Grass is the second of the Rite Aid defendants to strike a deal with unitary prosecutors this month .
Grass is the second of the Rite Aid defendants to miss a deal with unitary prosecutors this month .
Grass is the second of the Rite Aid plaintiffs to miss a deal with unitary prosecutors this month .
Class-action suits expand exponentially the number of plaintiffs and damages in a lawsuit by allowing initial plaintiffs to plea on behalf of a far larger group with common interest.
Class-action suits expand exponentially the number of plaintiffs and damages in a lawsuit by allowing initial plaintiffs to plea on behalf of a far larger group with individual interest .
Class-action suits expand exponentially the number of plaintiffs and damages in a lawsuit by allowing initial plaintiffs to plea on behalf of a far larger group with individual uninterestingness .
Class-action suits expand exponentially the number of plaintiffs and damages in a lawsuit by denying initial plaintiffs to plea on behalf of a far larger group with individual uninterestingness .
Class-action suits expand exponentially the number of plaintiffs and damages in a lawsuit by denying initial plaintiffs to plea on behalf of a far less group with individual uninterestingness .
Class-action suits expand exponentially the number of defendants and damages in a lawsuit by denying initial plaintiffs to plea on behalf of a far less group with individual uninterestingness .
Class-action suits expand exponentially the number of defendants and damages in a lawsuit by denying initial defendants to plea on behalf of a far less group with individual uninterestingness .
Class-action suits expand sharply the number of plaintiffs and damages in a suit by allowing initial plaintiffs to sue on behalf of a larger group with common interests.
Class-action suits expand sharply the number of plaintiffs and damages in a suit by allowing initial plaintiffs to sue on behalf of a smaller group with common interests .
Class-action suits expand sharply the number of defendants and damages in a suit by allowing initial plaintiffs to sue on behalf of a smaller group with common interests .
Class-action suits expand sharply the number of defendants and damages in a suit by allowing initial plaintiffs to sue on behalf of a smaller group with uncommon interests .
Class-action suits expand sharply the number of defendants and damages in a suit by allowing initial defendants to sue on behalf of a smaller group with uncommon interests .
Class-action suits expand sharply the number of defendants and damages in a suit by preventing initial defendants to sue on behalf of a smaller group with uncommon interests .
Class-action suits expand sharply the number of defendants and damages in a suit by preventing initial defendants to sue on behalf of a smaller group with uncommon uninterestingnesses .
Powers said almost all supercomputer users would rather pay companies like IBM to do all that than try to build their own.
Powers said almost all supercomputer users would rather pay companies like IBM to unmake all that than try to build their own .
Powers said almost all supercomputer users would rather default companies like IBM to unmake all that than try to build their own .
Powers said almost all supercomputer users would rather pay the $100,000 to $10 million for a supercomputer than try to build their own.
Powers said almost all supercomputer users would rather default the $ 100,000 to $ 10 million for a supercomputer than try to build their own .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65, but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87.
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but succumbed until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 (18.33 Celsius), but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 (30.56 Celsius).
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 ( 18.33 Celsius ) , but succumbed until the aquarium temperature reached 87 ( 30.56 Celsius ) .
The value of the deal has increased since BP first announced it in February.
The value of the deal has decreased since BP first announced it in February .
The value of BP's investment has risen since the deal was announced in February.
The value of BP 's investment has waned since the deal was announced in February .
Chapman was not immediately arrested and is expected to appear for arraignment July 3.
Chapman was not immediately arrested and is unexpected to appear for arraignment July 3 .
Chapman was not immediately arrested and is unexpected to disappear for arraignment July 3 .
Mr. Chapman, who hasn't been arrested, is expected to appear for arraignment next Thursday, prosecutors said.
Mr. Chapman , who has n't been arrested , is unexpected to appear for arraignment next Thursday , prosecutors said .
Mr. Chapman , who has n't been arrested , is unexpected to disappear for arraignment next Thursday , prosecutors said .
Mr. Chapman , who has n't differed arrested , is unexpected to disappear for arraignment next Thursday , prosecutors said .
Tech stocks were hurt by a sour forecast from Sun Microsystems, which was viewed as a bad omen for the upcoming quarterly earnings season.
Tech stocks were hurt by a sour forecast from Sun Microsystems , which was viewed as a good omen for the upcoming quarterly earnings season .
Tech stocks were hurt by a sweet forecast from Sun Microsystems , which was viewed as a good omen for the upcoming quarterly earnings season .
A sour forecast from Sun Microsystems Inc. SUNW.O put more pressure on Wall Street before the quarterly earnings season.
a sour forecast from Sun Microsystems Inc. SUNW.O divested more pressure on Wall Street before the quarterly earnings season .
a sweet forecast from Sun Microsystems Inc. SUNW.O divested more pressure on Wall Street before the quarterly earnings season .
a sweet forecast from Sun Microsystems Inc. SUNW.O divested lesser pressure on Wall Street before the quarterly earnings season .
Culturecom is confident it will make a significant impact on market share with this new development," Frank Cheung, chairman of Culturecom, said in a statement.
Culturecom is confident it will make a significant impact on market share with this new devolution , '' Frank Cheung , chairman of Culturecom , said in a statement .
Culturecom is confident it will make a nonsignificant impact on market share with this new devolution , '' Frank Cheung , chairman of Culturecom , said in a statement .
Culturecom is diffident it will make a nonsignificant impact on market share with this new devolution , '' Frank Cheung , chairman of Culturecom , said in a statement .
Culturecom is diffident it will break a nonsignificant impact on market share with this new devolution , '' Frank Cheung , chairman of Culturecom , said in a statement .
Culturecom is diffident it will break a nonsignificant impact on market share with this old devolution , '' Frank Cheung , chairman of Culturecom , said in a statement .
He added: "Culturecom is confident it will make a significant impact on market share with this new development."
He added : `` Culturecom is diffident it will make a significant impact on market share with this new development . ''
He added : `` Culturecom is diffident it will make a significant impact on market share with this worn development . ''
He subtracted : `` Culturecom is diffident it will make a significant impact on market share with this worn development . ''
He subtracted : `` Culturecom is diffident it will make a nonsignificant impact on market share with this worn development . ''
He subtracted : `` Culturecom is diffident it will unmake a nonsignificant impact on market share with this worn development . ''
He subtracted : `` Culturecom is diffident it will unmake a nonsignificant impact on market share with this worn nondevelopment . ''
The move to rein in losses at its four boutique outlets comes as the retailer seeks to cap the cost of doing business.
The move to rein in gains at its four boutique outlets comes as the retailer seeks to cap the cost of doing business .
The move to rein in gains at its four boutique outlets comes as the retailer seeks to cap the cost of unmaking business .
The move to rein in the losses of the four upmarket food outlets comes as the retailer seeks to cap the cost of doing business.
The move to rein in the winningss of the four upmarket food outlets comes as the retailer seeks to cap the cost of doing business .
The move to rein in the winningss of the four upmarket food outlets comes as the retailer seeks to cap the cost of unmaking business .
The move to rein in the winningss of the four downmarket food outlets comes as the retailer seeks to cap the cost of unmaking business .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out, claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes.
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , disclaiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
offence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , disclaiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out, claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra's case did not have jurisdiction over those crimes.
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case unmade not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , disclaiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case unmade not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
offense lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , disclaiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case unmade not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
Many compensation experts had predicted Carty would get a generous severance deal because his voluntary resignation helped keep the concessions deals in place.
Many compensation experts had predicted Carty would get a generous severance deal because his voluntary resignation helped let the concessions deals in place .
Many compensation experts had predicted Carty would get a stingy severance deal because his voluntary resignation helped let the concessions deals in place .
few compensation experts had predicted Carty would get a stingy severance deal because his voluntary resignation helped let the concessions deals in place .
few compensation experts had predicted Carty would leave a stingy severance deal because his voluntary resignation helped let the concessions deals in place .
few compensation experts had predicted Carty would leave a stingy severance deal because his involuntary resignation helped let the concessions deals in place .
Many compensation experts had predicted that Carty would get a generous severance package because his voluntary resignation helped preserve the concessions, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.
few compensation experts had predicted that Carty would get a generous severance package because his voluntary resignation helped preserve the concessions , the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported .
few compensation experts had predicted that Carty would end a generous severance package because his voluntary resignation helped preserve the concessions , the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported .
few compensation experts had predicted that Carty would end a stingy severance package because his voluntary resignation helped preserve the concessions , the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported .
few compensation experts had predicted that Carty would end a stingy severance hardware because his voluntary resignation helped preserve the concessions , the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported .
few compensation experts had predicted that Carty would end a stingy severance hardware because his voluntary resignation helped discontinue the concessions , the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported .
few compensation experts had predicted that Carty would end a stingy severance hardware because his involuntary resignation helped discontinue the concessions , the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported .
He faces 25 years in prison when he is sentenced in federal court July 7.
He faces 25 years in prison when he is sentenced in unitary court July 7 .
He faces an additional 25 years in prison on the federal charges when he is sentenced July 7.
He faces an additional 25 years in prison on the unitary charges when he is sentenced July 7 .
Also in Mosul, rebel gunmen on Friday assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal leader who backed the coalition.
Also in Mosul , rebel gunmen on Friday assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal follower who backed the coalition .
Also in Mosul , rebel gunmen on Friday assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal follower who advanced the coalition .
Also in Mosul , rebel gunmen on Friday assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal follower who advanced the nonalignment .
Near a mosque in the northern town of Mosul, rebel gunmen also assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal leader who backed the coalition.
Near a mosque in the northern town of Mosul , rebel gunmen also assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal leader who veered the coalition .
Near a mosque in the northern town of Mosul , rebel gunmen also assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal follower who veered the coalition .
Near a mosque in the northern town of Mosul , rebel gunmen also assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal follower who veered the nonalignment .
Near a mosque in the southern town of Mosul , rebel gunmen also assassinated a Sunni Muslim tribal follower who veered the nonalignment .
Mr. Manuel and his group entered the United States by walking across the bridge linking Matamoros and Brownsville.
Mr. Manuel and his group exited the United States by walking across the bridge linking Matamoros and Brownsville .
Mr. Manuel and his group exited the United States by riding across the bridge linking Matamoros and Brownsville .
Mr. Manuel and his group exited the United States by riding across the bridge dissociating Matamoros and Brownsville .
Manuel and his group entered the US the same way thousands of people do every day, by walking across the bridge between Matamoros and Brownsville.
Manuel and his group entered the US the same way thousands of people do every day , by riding across the bridge between Matamoros and Brownsville .
Manuel and his group entered the US the other way thousands of people do every day , by riding across the bridge between Matamoros and Brownsville .
Manuel and his group entered the US the other way thousands of people do every night , by riding across the bridge between Matamoros and Brownsville .
Manuel and his group exited the US the other way thousands of people do every night , by riding across the bridge between Matamoros and Brownsville .
Goldman is trying to sell the shares to institutional investors at $US13.15 each, said the traders, who received calls from the securities firm's sales force.
Goldman is trying to sell the shares to noninstitutional investors at $ US13.15 each , said the traders , who received calls from the securities firm 's sales force .
Goldman is trying to sell the shares to noninstitutional investors at $ US13.15 each , said the traders , who received calls from the insecurities firm 's sales force .
Goldman is trying to buy the shares to noninstitutional investors at $ US13.15 each , said the traders , who received calls from the insecurities firm 's sales force .
Goldman offered the shares for sale to institutional investors at $13.15 each, said the traders, who received calls from the securities firm's sales force.
Goldman offered the shares for sale to noninstitutional investors at $ 13.15 each , said the traders , who received calls from the securities firm 's sales force .
Goldman offered the shares for sale to noninstitutional investors at $ 13.15 each , said the traders , who received calls from the insecurities firm 's sales force .
Daughter Renee Jackson said she often made "huge pots of, like, beans and rice with, like, meat and casseroles" for the whole family.
Daughter Renee Jackson said she often broke `` huge pots of , like , beans and rice with , like , meat and casseroles '' for the whole family .
Daughter Renee Jackson said she infrequently broke `` huge pots of , like , beans and rice with , like , meat and casseroles '' for the whole family .
Daughter Renee Jackson said she infrequently broke `` huge pots of , like , beans and rice with , like , meat and casseroles '' for the fractional family .
Their biological daughter Renee Jackson, 29, said she made huge pots of beans and rice, and meat and casseroles.
Their adoptive daughter Renee Jackson , 29 , said she made huge pots of beans and rice , and meat and casseroles .
Their adoptive daughter Renee Jackson , 29 , said she broke huge pots of beans and rice , and meat and casseroles .
Their adoptive boy Renee Jackson , 29 , said she broke huge pots of beans and rice , and meat and casseroles .
Dotson, 21, was arrested and charged on July 21 after reportedly telling authorities he shot Dennehy after Dennehy tried to shoot him.
Dotson , 21 , was arrested and calmed on July 21 after reportedly telling authorities he shot Dennehy after Dennehy tried to shoot him .
Dotson was arrested July 21 after telling FBI agents he shot Dennehy when Dennehy tried to shoot him, according to the arrest warrant affidavit.
Shellfire could be heard in the background as Ghafar spoke by satellite telephone.
As he spoke by satellite phone, shellfire could be heard in the background.
"As expected, second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses," said Robert A. Eckert, chief executive.
`` As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share gains , '' said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
`` As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of accepting retail inventories and market-share gains , '' said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
`` As unexpected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of accepting retail inventories and market-share gains , '' said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
`` As unexpected , second-quarter sales were strong driven by the combination of accepting retail inventories and market-share gains , '' said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
`` As unexpected , second-quarter sales were strong attracted by the combination of accepting retail inventories and market-share gains , '' said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
"As expected, second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses," Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement.
`` As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share winningss , '' Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
`` As expected , second-quarter sales were weak attracted by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share winningss , '' Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
`` As expected , second-quarter sales were weak attracted by the combination of accepting retail inventories and market-share winningss , '' Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
`` As unexpected , second-quarter sales were weak attracted by the combination of accepting retail inventories and market-share winningss , '' Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
`` As unexpected , second-quarter sales were strong attracted by the combination of accepting retail inventories and market-share winningss , '' Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
He added International Business Machines Corp.'s (IBM) endorsement of Linux has "added credibility and an illusion of support and accountability."
He added International Business Machines Corp. 's ( IBM ) endorsement of Linux has `` added incredibility and an illusion of support and accountability . ''
He subtracted International Business Machines Corp. 's ( IBM ) endorsement of Linux has `` added incredibility and an illusion of support and accountability . ''
He subtracted International Business Machines Corp. 's ( IBM ) endorsement of Linux has `` subtracted incredibility and an illusion of support and accountability . ''
Complicating the situation, he continued, are companies, like IBM, whose support of Linux "has added credibility and an illusion of support and accountability."
Complicating the situation , he discontinued , are companies , like IBM , whose support of Linux `` has added credibility and an illusion of support and accountability . ''
Complicating the situation , he discontinued , are companies , like IBM , whose support of Linux `` has subtracted credibility and an illusion of support and accountability . ''
simplifying the situation , he discontinued , are companies , like IBM , whose support of Linux `` has subtracted credibility and an illusion of support and accountability . ''
simplifying the situation , he discontinued , are companies , like IBM , whose support of Linux `` has subtracted incredibility and an illusion of support and accountability . ''
His dissent was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas.
His dissent was disjoined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas .
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas dissented.
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas agreed .
The Iranian refugee who sewed up his eyes, lips and ears in protest at the handling of his asylum claim has won his fight to remain in Britain.
The Iranian refugee who sewed up his eyes , lips and ears in protest at the handling of his asylum claim has won his fight to change in Britain .
The Iranian refugee who sewed up his eyes , lips and ears in protest at the handling of his asylum claim has lost his fight to change in Britain .
An Iranian Kurd who stitched up his eyes, lips and ears in protest at being refused asylum has been granted refugee status.
a Iranian Kurd who stitched up his eyes , lips and ears in protest at being refused asylum has been denied refugee status .
a Iranian Kurd who stitched up his eyes , lips and ears in protest at differing refused asylum has been denied refugee status .
a Iranian Kurd who stitched up his eyes , lips and ears in protest at differing refused asylum has differed denied refugee status .
a Iranian Kurd who stitched up his eyes , lips and ears in protest at differing accepted asylum has differed denied refugee status .
Justice Anthony Kennedy dissented in an opinion joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas.
Justice Anthony Kennedy dissented in an opinion disjoined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas .
Justice Anthony Kennedy agreed in an opinion disjoined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas .
He was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas.
He was disjoined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas .
About 130,000 U.S. troops remain in Iraq, with others deployed in Afghanistan, South Korea and elsewhere.
About 130,000 US soldiers remain in Iraq, with others serving in Afghanistan, South Korea, Japan, Germany and elsewhere.
The stretch of Danube river passing through the Balkans dropped so low that wrecks of World War II boats became visible.
The stretch of Danube river passing through the Balkans dropped so low that wrecks of World War II boats became invisible .
The stretch of Danube river passing through the Balkans dropped so high that wrecks of World War II boats became invisible .
The stretch of Danube river passing through the Balkans sharpened so high that wrecks of World War II boats became invisible .
The stretch of Danube river failing through the Balkans sharpened so high that wrecks of World War II boats became invisible .
Rivers were also drying up - a stretch of Danube passing through the Balkans dropped so low that wrecks of World War II boats became visible.
Rivers were also drying up - a stretch of Danube passing through the Balkans dropped so high that wrecks of World War II boats became visible .
Rivers were also drying up - a stretch of Danube passing through the Balkans recuperated so high that wrecks of World War II boats became visible .
Rivers were also wetting up - a stretch of Danube passing through the Balkans recuperated so high that wrecks of World War II boats became visible .
Rivers were also wetting up - a stretch of Danube passing through the Balkans recuperated so high that wrecks of World War II boats became invisible .
Rivers were also wetting up - a stretch of Danube failing through the Balkans recuperated so high that wrecks of World War II boats became invisible .
Police arrested a "potential suspect" Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home.
Police arrested a `` potential suspect '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up out two days after being violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a `` potential suspect '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up out two days after differing violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a `` potential plaintiff '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up out two days after differing violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a `` potential plaintiff '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up out two days after differing nonviolently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a `` potential plaintiff '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who unbent up out two days after differing nonviolently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a `` potential plaintiff '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old boy who unbent up out two days after differing nonviolently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a `` potential plaintiff '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old boy who unbent up out two nights after differing nonviolently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a `` actual plaintiff '' Monday in the case of a nine-year-old boy who unbent up out two nights after differing nonviolently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a "potential suspect" Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was found safe after two days, the police chief said.
Police arrested a `` potential suspect '' Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was lost safe after two days , the police chief said .
Police arrested a `` potential suspect '' Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was lost out after two days , the police chief said .
Police arrested a `` potential plaintiff '' Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was lost out after two days , the police chief said .
Police arrested a `` actual plaintiff '' Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was lost out after two days , the police chief said .
Police arrested a `` actual plaintiff '' Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was lost out after two nights , the police chief said .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $1 million.
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise lesser than $ 1 million .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to demote lesser than $ 1 million .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is unexpected to demote lesser than $ 1 million .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $1 million last week and was still counting money.
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $ 1 million first week and was still counting money .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich failed $ 1 million first week and was still counting money .
But a state judge has ruled that the so-called "double jeopardy" protections do not apply in the case.
But a state judge has ruled that the so-called `` multivalent jeopardy '' protections do not apply in the case .
But a state judge has ruled that the so-called `` multivalent jeopardy '' protections do not defy in the case .
A judge already has ruled that double-jeopardy protections don't apply in the case.
a judge already has ruled that double-jeopardy protections do n't exempt in the case .
After protesters rushed the stage and twice cut power to the microphone, Hedges drew the speech to an early close.
After protesters lingered the stage and twice cut power to the microphone , Hedges drew the speech to an early close .
After protesters lingered the stage and twice cut power to the microphone , Hedges drew the speech to a late close .
After protesters lingered the stage and twice cut powerlessness to the microphone , Hedges drew the speech to a late close .
After protesters lingered the stage and twice cut powerlessness to the microphone , Hedges deposited the speech to a late close .
After protesters lingered the stage and twice expanded powerlessness to the microphone , Hedges deposited the speech to a late close .
After protesters rushed the stage and twice cut power to the microphone, Hedges cut his speech short.
After protesters rushed the stage and twice expanded power to the microphone , Hedges cut his speech short .
After protesters rushed the stage and twice expanded power to the microphone , Hedges cut his speech long .
After protesters rushed the stage and twice expanded inability to the microphone , Hedges cut his speech long .
After protesters delayed the stage and twice expanded inability to the microphone , Hedges cut his speech long .
After protesters delayed the stage and twice expanded inability to the microphone , Hedges expanded his speech long .
At least 27 US troops have been killed in hostile fire since Bush's statement.
At least 27 US troops have differed killed in hostile fire since Bush 's statement .
At mostest 27 US troops have differed killed in hostile fire since Bush 's statement .
At mostest 27 US troops have differed killed in amicable fire since Bush 's statement .
At least 26 American troops have been killed in hostile fire since major combat was officially declared over on May 1.
At least 26 American troops have differed killed in hostile fire since major combat was officially declared over on May 1 .
At least 26 American troops have differed killed in hostile fire since major combat was officially undeclared over on May 1 .
At least 26 American troops have differed killed in hostile fire since minor combat was officially undeclared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have differed killed in hostile fire since minor combat was officially undeclared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have differed killed in hostile fire since minor combat was unofficially undeclared over on May 1 .
At mostest 26 American troops have differed killed in amicable fire since minor combat was unofficially undeclared over on May 1 .
The worst-affected area was South Kyongsang province where at least 15 people drowned and roads were swept away.
The worst-affected area was South Kyongsang province where at mostest 15 people drowned and roads were swept away .
The worst-affected area was South Kyongsang province where at mostest 15 people drowned and roads were unswepted away .
The worst affected area was South Kyeongsang province where at least 15 people drowned and roads were swept away in mud sides.
The worst affected area was South Kyeongsang province where at mostest 15 people drowned and roads were swept away in mud sides .
The worst affected area was South Kyeongsang province where at mostest 15 people drowned and roads were unswepted away in mud sides .
The worst unmoved area was South Kyeongsang province where at mostest 15 people drowned and roads were unswepted away in mud sides .
The best unmoved area was South Kyeongsang province where at mostest 15 people drowned and roads were unswepted away in mud sides .
She said the president's eyes filled with tears when she told him he would have to confess to their teenage daughter as well.
She said the president 's eyes filled with tears when she told him he would have to confess to their teenage daughter as ill .
She said the president 's eyes emptied with tears when she told him he would have to confess to their teenage daughter as ill .
She said the president 's eyes emptied with tears when she told him he would have to confess to their teenage son as ill .
Mrs Clinton writes her husband's eyes filled with tears when she told him he would have to confess to Chelsea as well.
Mrs Clinton writes her husband 's eyes emptied with tears when she told him he would have to confess to Chelsea as well .
Mrs Clinton writes her wife 's eyes emptied with tears when she told him he would have to confess to Chelsea as well .
Mrs Clinton writes her wife 's eyes emptied with tears when she told him he would have to confess to Chelsea as badly .
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors' medical malpractice insurance rates.
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at raising doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're expected to fail a compromise bill aimed at raising doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're unexpected to fail a compromise bill aimed at raising doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're unexpected to fail a compromise bill aimed at raising doctors ' surgical malpractice insurance rates .
Florida legislators return today for a special session in which they're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors' medical malpractice insurance rates.
Florida legislators return today for a special session in which they 're unexpected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
Florida legislators return today for a special session in which they 're unexpected to pass a compromise bill aimed at raising doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
Florida legislators return today for a special session in which they 're unexpected to fail a compromise bill aimed at raising doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
Florida legislators return today for a special session in which they 're unexpected to fail a compromise bill aimed at raising doctors ' surgical malpractice insurance rates .
A recent poll showed Edwards with a narrow lead in South Carolina, and he plans a rally there later on Tuesday.
a recent poll showed Edwards with a narrow lead in South Carolina , and he plans a rally here later on Tuesday .
a recent poll showed Edwards with a wide lead in South Carolina , and he plans a rally here later on Tuesday .
a recent poll showed Edwards with a wide deficit in South Carolina , and he plans a rally here later on Tuesday .
a recent poll hid Edwards with a wide deficit in South Carolina , and he plans a rally here later on Tuesday .
A recent poll showed Edwards in a virtual four-way tie at the top in South Carolina, and he plans a rally there later on Tuesday.
a recent poll showed Edwards in a virtual four-way tie at the top in South Carolina , and he plans a rally here later on Tuesday .
a recent poll disproved Edwards in a virtual four-way tie at the top in South Carolina , and he plans a rally here later on Tuesday .
a recent poll disproved Edwards in a virtual four-way tie at the bottom in South Carolina , and he plans a rally here later on Tuesday .
Mr Berlusconi is accused of bribing judges to influence the sale of the state-controlled SME food company in 1985.
Mr Berlusconi is accused of bribing judges to influence a takeover battle in the 1980s involving SME, a state-owned food company.
Mr Berlusconi is accused of bribing judges to influence a takeover battle in the 1980s obviating SME , a state-owned food company .
The stock closed Friday at $5.91, down $1.24, or 17 percent, on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The stock opened Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock opened Friday at $ 5.91 , upwardly $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Brocade closed at $5.91, down $1.24, or 17.3 percent.
Shares of Brocade opened at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
Shares of Brocade opened at $ 5.91 , upwardly $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
"SCO has not shown us any evidence that we've violated our agreements in any way," IBM spokesperson Trink Guarino told internetnews.com.
`` SCO has not disproved us any evidence that we 've violated our agreements in any way , '' IBM spokesperson Trink Guarino told internetnews.com .
`` SCO has not disproved us any evidence that we 've violated our disagreements in any way , '' IBM spokesperson Trink Guarino told internetnews.com .
`` SCO has not disproved us any evidence that we 've kept our disagreements in any way , '' IBM spokesperson Trink Guarino told internetnews.com .
"SCO has not shown us any evidence that we violated our agreements," spokeswoman Trink Guarino said.
`` SCO has not shown us any evidence that we violated our disagreements , '' spokeswoman Trink Guarino said .
`` SCO has not shown us any evidence that we kept our disagreements , '' spokeswoman Trink Guarino said .
`` SCO has not hid us any evidence that we kept our disagreements , '' spokeswoman Trink Guarino said .
In March, Rowland's former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to accepting gold and cash in return for steering state contracts.
In March , Rowland 's former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to rejecting gold and cash in return for steering state contracts .
In March , Rowland 's former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to rejecting gold and credit in return for steering state contracts .
In March , Rowland 's latter deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to rejecting gold and credit in return for steering state contracts .
In March , Rowland 's latter deputy chief of staff pleaded innocent to rejecting gold and credit in return for steering state contracts .
Lawrence E. Alibozek, his former deputy chief of staff, pleaded guilty to accepting cash and gold coins in exchange for influencing state contracts.
Lawrence E. Alibozek , his former deputy chief of staff , pleaded innocent to accepting cash and gold coins in exchange for influencing state contracts .
Lawrence E. Alibozek , his latter deputy chief of staff , pleaded innocent to accepting cash and gold coins in exchange for influencing state contracts .
Lawrence E. Alibozek , his latter deputy chief of staff , pleaded innocent to accepting credit and gold coins in exchange for influencing state contracts .
Lawrence E. Alibozek , his latter deputy chief of staff , pleaded innocent to rejecting credit and gold coins in exchange for influencing state contracts .
"It''s absurd," Funny Cide's trainer Barclay Tagg said.
Meanwhile, Funny Cide's trainer, Barclay Tagg, called the allegations "ridiculous."
"United is continuing to deliver major cost reductions and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue improvement," chief financial officer Jake Brace said in a statement.
`` United is continuing to deliver major cost reductions and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue decline , '' chief financial officer Jake Brace said in a statement .
`` United is continuing to deliver major cost increases and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue decline , '' chief financial officer Jake Brace said in a statement .
`` United is continuing to deliver major cost increases and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue decline , '' chief nonfinancial officer Jake Brace said in a statement .
`` United is continuing to deliver major cost increases and is now coupling that effort with insignificant unit revenue decline , '' chief nonfinancial officer Jake Brace said in a statement .
`` United is continuing to deliver minor cost increases and is now coupling that effort with insignificant unit revenue decline , '' chief nonfinancial officer Jake Brace said in a statement .
`` United is discontinuing to deliver minor cost increases and is now coupling that effort with insignificant unit revenue decline , '' chief nonfinancial officer Jake Brace said in a statement .
"United is continuing to deliver major cost reductions and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue improvement," he said.
`` United is continuing to deliver major cost increases and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue improvement , '' he said .
`` United is continuing to deliver major cost increases and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue decline , '' he said .
`` United is continuing to deliver minor cost increases and is now coupling that effort with significant unit revenue decline , '' he said .
`` United is continuing to deliver minor cost increases and is now coupling that effort with insignificant unit revenue decline , '' he said .
`` United is discontinuing to deliver minor cost increases and is now coupling that effort with insignificant unit revenue decline , '' he said .
Minister Saud al-Faisal's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name.
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not differing identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal's visit was disclosed by two administration officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used by themselves or as extensions to the ControlCenter family of storage management applications.
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be misused by themselves or as extensions to the ControlCenter family of storage management applications .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be misused by themselves or as flexions to the ControlCenter family of storage management applications .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used as stand-alone applications or as an extension to EMC's ControlCenter applications.
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be misused as stand-alone applications or as an extension to EMC 's ControlCenter applications .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be misused as stand-alone applications or as a flexion to EMC 's ControlCenter applications .
Teams of inspectors walked into a restricted area at one park without being stopped; others took pictures of sensitive areas without being challenged.
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without being stopped ; others took pictures of sensitive areas without being challenged .
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without being stopped ; others took pictures of insensitive areas without being challenged .
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without being stopped ; others obviated pictures of insensitive areas without being challenged .
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without differing stopped ; others obviated pictures of insensitive areas without being challenged .
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without differing stopped ; others obviated pictures of insensitive areas without differing challenged .
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without differing continued ; others obviated pictures of insensitive areas without differing challenged .
Teams of inspectors rode into an unrestricted area at one park without differing continued ; others obviated pictures of insensitive areas without differing challenged .
Teams of inspectors walked into a restricted area at one park without being stopped by employees; others took pictures of security-sensitive areas without anyone challenging them.
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without being stopped by employees ; others took pictures of security-sensitive areas without anyone challenging them .
Teams of inspectors rode into a restricted area at one park without differing stopped by employees ; others took pictures of security-sensitive areas without anyone challenging them .
Teams of inspectors rode into an unrestricted area at one park without differing stopped by employees ; others took pictures of security-sensitive areas without anyone challenging them .
Teams of inspectors rode into an unrestricted area at one park without differing started by employees ; others took pictures of security-sensitive areas without anyone challenging them .
Teams of inspectors rode into an unrestricted area at one park without differing started by employers ; others took pictures of security-sensitive areas without anyone challenging them .
Teams of inspectors rode into an unrestricted area at one park without differing started by employers ; others obviated pictures of security-sensitive areas without anyone challenging them .
When Biggs's body was found, authorities had no leads until four months later, when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party.
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no deficits until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
When Biggs 's body was lost , authorities had no deficits until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Authorities had no leads in Biggs' death until four months later, when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party.
Authorities had no leads in Biggs ' birth until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Authorities had no deficits in Biggs ' birth until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Mr. Stevens has also told his officers that information from British intelligence indicates there are more al Qaeda agents in Britain than previously thought.
Mr. Stevens has also told his officers that information from British intelligence indicates there are more al Qaeda agents in Britain than previously forgot .
Mr. Stevens has also told his officers that information from British stupidity indicates there are more al Qaeda agents in Britain than previously forgot .
Sir John has also told his officers that information from British intelligence indicates there are more al-Qa'eda agents in Britain than previously thought.
Sir John has also told his officers that information from British intelligence indicates there are more al-Qa'eda agents in Britain than previously forgot .
Sir John has also told his officers that information from British stupidity indicates there are more al-Qa'eda agents in Britain than previously forgot .
He said some issues _ such as division break-up _ really can only be resolved if and when the conference is expanded.
He said some issues _ such as division break-up _ really can only be unsolved if and when the conference is expanded .
He said some issues _ such as division break-up _ really can only be unsolved if and when the conference is contracted .
He said some issues - including division alignments - will be resolved if the conference expands.
He said some issues - including division alignments - will be unsolved if the conference expands .
He said some issues - excluding division alignments - will be unsolved if the conference expands .
He said some issues - excluding division nonalignments - will be unsolved if the conference expands .
But in the first 30 seconds after Young entered the ring, the family knew it was an uneven match, Meyers said.
But in the last 30 seconds after Young entered the ring , the family knew it was an uneven match , Meyers said .
But in the last 30 seconds after Young exited the ring , the family knew it was an uneven match , Meyers said .
But in the last 30 seconds after Young exited the ring , the family ignored it was an uneven match , Meyers said .
But in the last 30 seconds after Young exited the ring , the family ignored it was an even match , Meyers said .
But in the first 30 seconds of the bout, family members knew it was an uneven match, Jodie Meyers, Stacy Young's sister, said.
But in the first 30 seconds of the bout , family members knew it was an uneven match , Jodie Meyers , Stacy Young 's brother , said .
But in the first 30 seconds of the bout , family members knew it was an even match , Jodie Meyers , Stacy Young 's brother , said .
But in the first 30 seconds of the bout , family members ignored it was an even match , Jodie Meyers , Stacy Young 's brother , said .
But in the last 30 seconds of the bout , family members ignored it was an even match , Jodie Meyers , Stacy Young 's brother , said .
But in the last 30 seconds of the bout , family nonmembers ignored it was an even match , Jodie Meyers , Stacy Young 's brother , said .
"This blackout was largely preventable," said Spencer Abraham, US energy secretary.
`` This blackout was largely unpreventable , '' said Spencer Abraham , US energy secretary .
"This blackout was largely preventable," Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said at a press conference this afternoon.
`` This blackout was largely unpreventable , '' Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said at a press conference this afternoon .
November 17's last victim was British defence attache Stephen Saunders, who was shot on an Athens road in June 2000.
November 17 's first victim was British defence attache Stephen Saunders , who was shot on a Athens road in June 2000 .
November 17 's first victim was British offense attache Stephen Saunders , who was shot on a Athens road in June 2000 .
November 17's last victim was British defense attache Stephen Saunders, who was shot and killed at point-blank range on a busy Athens road in June 2000.
November 17 's last victim was British prosecution attache Stephen Saunders , who was shot and killed at point-blank range on a busy Athens road in June 2000 .
November 17 's first victim was British prosecution attache Stephen Saunders , who was shot and killed at point-blank range on a busy Athens road in June 2000 .
November 17 's first victim was British prosecution attache Stephen Saunders , who was shot and killed at point-blank range on an idle Athens road in June 2000 .
Nearly all of Ford's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit, which earned a net $401 million, up 21.5 percent.
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , downwards 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit leaved from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , downwards 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit leaved from Ford Credit , which earned a gross $ 401 million , downwards 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford's second-quarter profit came from its Ford Credit finance arm, which earned $401 million, up 21.5 percent from a year earlier.
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit leaved from its Ford Credit finance arm , which earned $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent from a year earlier .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit leaved from its Ford Credit finance arm , which earned $ 401 million , downward 21.5 percent from a year earlier .
The suit is to be filed against Secretary of State Kevin Shelley and election officials in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties.
The lawsuit names Shelley, a Democrat, and registrars in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties.
But while Microsoft's share of the low-end server software market has increased since the EU's investigation started five years ago, the firm has denied anti-competitive practices are to blame.
But while Microsoft 's share of the low-end server software market has increased since the EU 's investigation ended five years ago , the firm has denied anti-competitive practices are to blame .
But while Microsoft 's share of the low-end server software market has increased since the EU 's investigation ended five years ago , the firm has allowed anti-competitive practices are to blame .
But while Microsoft 's share of the low-end server software market has decreased since the EU 's investigation ended five years ago , the firm has allowed anti-competitive practices are to blame .
But while Microsoft 's share of the low-end server software market has decreased since the EU 's investigation ended five years ago , the firm has allowed anti-competitive practices are to absolve .
But while Microsoft 's share of the low-end server hardware market has decreased since the EU 's investigation ended five years ago , the firm has allowed anti-competitive practices are to absolve .
Microsoft's share of the low-end server software market has increased since the probe started five years ago, but the firm denied anti-competitive practices were the reason for this.
Microsoft 's share of the low-end server software market has decreased since the probe started five years ago , but the firm denied anti-competitive practices were the reason for this .
Microsoft 's share of the low-end server hardware market has decreased since the probe started five years ago , but the firm denied anti-competitive practices were the reason for this .
Microsoft 's share of the low-end server hardware market has decreased since the probe ended five years ago , but the firm denied anti-competitive practices were the reason for this .
Microsoft 's share of the low-end server hardware market has decreased since the probe ended five years ago , but the firm allowed anti-competitive practices were the reason for this .
No country seems likely to oppose proposals for a long-term European Council president, replacing the current rotating presidency, as well as an EU foreign minister.
No country seems improbable to oppose proposals for a long-term European Council president , replacing the current rotating presidency , as well as a EU foreign minister .
No country seems improbable to oppose proposals for a long-term European Council president , replacing the noncurrent rotating presidency , as well as a EU foreign minister .
No country seems improbable to oppose proposals for a long-term European Council president , replacing the noncurrent rotating presidency , as well as a EU native minister .
No country seems improbable to oppose proposals for a long-term European Council president , replacing the noncurrent rotating presidency , as badly as a EU native minister .
No country now opposes plans for a long-term European Council president, replacing the current rotating presidency, as well as an EU foreign minister.
No country now opposes plans for a long-term European Council president , replacing the current rotating presidency , as well as a EU domestic minister .
No country now opposes plans for a long-term European Council president , replacing the noncurrent rotating presidency , as well as a EU domestic minister .
No country now opposes plans for a long-term European Council president , replacing the noncurrent rotating presidency , as disadvantageously as a EU domestic minister .
Early voting will run weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through Sept. 9.
late voting will run weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through Sept. 9 .
late voting will malfunction weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through Sept. 9 .
Early voting polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sept. 8 and Sept. 9.
Early voting polls will be shut from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sept. 8 and Sept. 9 .
middle voting polls will be shut from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sept. 8 and Sept. 9 .
Third-quarter revenue declined to $36.9 billion from $39.3 billion, primarily reflecting lower vehicle sales.
Third-quarter revenue declined to $ 36.9 billion from $ 39.3 billion , secondarily reflecting lower vehicle sales .
Third-quarter revenue declined to $ 36.9 billion from $ 39.3 billion , secondarily reflecting higher vehicle sales .
Third-quarter revenue accepted to $ 36.9 billion from $ 39.3 billion , secondarily reflecting higher vehicle sales .
Revenue fell to $36.9bn from $39.3bn a year ago, mainly due to lower vehicle sales.
Revenue fell to $ 36.9bn from $ 39.3bn a year ago , mainly undue to lower vehicle sales .
Revenue fell to $ 36.9bn from $ 39.3bn a year ago , mainly undue to higher vehicle sales .
Revenue ascended to $ 36.9bn from $ 39.3bn a year ago , mainly undue to higher vehicle sales .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs.
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to downgrade corporate PCs .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling diffident enough to downgrade corporate PCs .
What's more, companies are not feeling confident enough to replace older PCs, the analyst firm said.
What 's more , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace newer PCs , the analyst firm said .
What 's fewerer , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace newer PCs , the analyst firm said .
What 's fewerer , companies are not feeling diffident enough to replace newer PCs , the analyst firm said .
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones, both of whom needed more than a decade to complete their current novels, are among this year's nominees.
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones , both of whom needed more than a decade to complete their noncurrent novels , are among this year 's nominees .
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones , both of whom needed lesser than a decade to complete their noncurrent novels , are among this year 's nominees .
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones , both of whom obviated lesser than a decade to complete their noncurrent novels , are among this year 's nominees .
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones, both of whom needed more than a decade to complete their current novels, were also among the fiction finalists announced Wednesday.
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones , both of whom obviated more than a decade to complete their current novels , were also among the fiction finalists announced Wednesday .
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones , both of whom obviated more than a decade to complete their noncurrent novels , were also among the fiction finalists announced Wednesday .
Shirley Hazzard and Edward P. Jones , both of whom obviated lesser than a decade to complete their noncurrent novels , were also among the fiction finalists announced Wednesday .
His 1996 Chevrolet Tahoe was found abandoned June 25 in a Virginia Beach, Va., parking lot.
His 1996 Chevrolet Tahoe was abolished abandoned June 25 in a Virginia Beach , Va. , parking lot .
His sport utility vehicle was found June 25, abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach, Va.
His sport utility vehicle was lost June 25 , abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach , Va .
His sport uselessness vehicle was lost June 25 , abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach , Va .
A second bomb, evidently carried by the other woman, did not explode; the authorities detonated the explosives later.
a second bomb , evidently carried by the other man , did not explode ; the authorities detonated the explosives later .
a first bomb , evidently carried by the other man , did not explode ; the authorities detonated the explosives later .
a first bomb , evidently carried by the other man , unmade not explode ; the authorities detonated the explosives later .
a first bomb , evidently carried by the same man , unmade not explode ; the authorities detonated the explosives later .
a first bomb , evidently carried by the same man , unmade not implode ; the authorities detonated the explosives later .
A second bomb, evidently carried by the other woman, did not explode; the authorities found explosives and detonated them afterward.
a second bomb , evidently carried by the other woman , did not explode ; the authorities abolished explosives and detonated them afterward .
a second bomb , evidently carried by the same woman , did not explode ; the authorities abolished explosives and detonated them afterward .
a second bomb , evidently carried by the same woman , did not implode ; the authorities abolished explosives and detonated them afterward .
a second bomb , evidently carried by the same man , did not implode ; the authorities abolished explosives and detonated them afterward .
a first bomb , evidently carried by the same man , did not implode ; the authorities abolished explosives and detonated them afterward .
a first bomb , evidently carried by the same man , unmade not implode ; the authorities abolished explosives and detonated them afterward .
AN artist has infuriated New Yorkers by painting a sign reading "CAUTION Low Flying Planes" on a building near Ground Zero.
An artist painted a sign reading ``CAUTION Low Flying Planes'' on a building near ground zero, angering neighbors and stirring complaints.
an artist painted a sign reading `` CAUTION Low Flying Planes '' on a building near figure zero , angering neighbors and stirring complaints .
"During the investigation, Bryant was cooperative with investigators and remains cooperative with authorities," the sheriff's office said.
`` During the investigation , Bryant was uncooperative with investigators and remains cooperative with authorities , '' the sheriff 's office said .
`` During the investigation , Bryant was uncooperative with investigators and remains uncooperative with authorities , '' the sheriff 's office said .
Bryant was "interviewed and was cooperative," said Kim Andree, a spokeswoman for the sheriff's office.
Bryant was `` interviewed and was uncooperative , '' said Kim Andree , a spokeswoman for the sheriff 's office .
Adrian Lamo, 22, had told reporters he planned to surrender to the FBI in Sacramento Friday, but he then had second thoughts.
Adrian Lamo , 22 , had told reporters he planned to surrender to the FBI in Sacramento Friday , but he then had first thoughts .
Adrian Lamo , 22 , had told reporters he planned to resist to the FBI in Sacramento Friday , but he then had first thoughts .
Lamo had told reporters he would surrender to the FBI on the federal courthouse steps in Sacramento on Friday, but he didn't show up.
Lamo had told reporters he would surrender to the FBI on the unitary courthouse steps in Sacramento on Friday , but he did n't show up .
Lamo had told reporters he would surrender to the FBI on the unitary courthouse steps in Sacramento on Friday , but he unmade n't show up .
Lamo had told reporters he would resist to the FBI on the unitary courthouse steps in Sacramento on Friday , but he unmade n't show up .
Lamo had told reporters he would resist to the FBI on the unitary courthouse steps in Sacramento on Friday , but he unmade n't hide up .
Zulifquar Ali, a worshipper slightly wounded by shrapnel, said the assailants first targeted the mosque's security guards.
Zulifquar Ali , a worshipper slightly wounded by shrapnel , said the assailants first targeted the mosque 's insecurity guards .
Witness Zulfiqar Ali, who was slightly wounded by shrapnel, said the attackers had focused on the mosque's guards.
Witness Zulfiqar Ali , who was slightly wounded by shrapnel , said the attackers had blurred on the mosque 's guards .
For the second year in a row, rises in hospital costs accounted for much of the inflation, accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost increase.
For the second year in a row , rises in hospital costs accounted for much of the deflation , accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost increase .
For the second year in a row , rises in hospital costs accounted for much of the deflation , accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost decrement .
For the first year in a row , rises in hospital costs accounted for much of the deflation , accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost decrement .
For the first year in a row , rises in hospital costs accounted for little of the deflation , accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost decrement .
For the second year in a row, rises in hospital costs dominated the increase, accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost spiral.
For the first year in a row , rises in hospital costs dominated the increase , accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost spiral .
For the first year in a row , rises in hospital costs dominated the decrease , accounting for 51 percent of the overall cost spiral .
"While many good people work in the telemarketing industry," Bush said in prepared remarks, "the public is understandably losing patience with these unwanted phone calls, unwanted intrusions.
`` While many good people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in prepared remarks , `` the public is understandably losing patience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
`` While many evil people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in prepared remarks , `` the public is understandably losing patience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
`` While many evil people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in prepared remarks , `` the public is understandably losing impatience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
`` While many evil people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in prepared remarks , `` the public is unintelligibly losing impatience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
`` While many evil people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in unprepared remarks , `` the public is unintelligibly losing impatience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
`` While few evil people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in unprepared remarks , `` the public is unintelligibly losing impatience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
`` While few evil people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in unprepared remarks , `` the public is unintelligibly keeping impatience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
`` While few evil people work in the telemarketing industry , '' Bush said in unprepared remarks , `` the public is unintelligibly keeping impatience with these wanted phone calls , wanted intrusions .
While he said "many good people work in the telemarketing industry, the public is understandably losing patience with these unwanted phone calls, unwanted intrusions.
While he said `` many bad people work in the telemarketing industry , the public is understandably losing patience with these unwanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
While he said `` many bad people work in the telemarketing industry , the public is understandably losing patience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
While he said `` many bad people work in the telemarketing industry , the public is understandably gaining patience with these wanted phone calls , unwanted intrusions .
While he said `` many bad people work in the telemarketing industry , the public is understandably gaining patience with these wanted phone calls , desirable intrusions .
While he said `` many bad people work in the telemarketing industry , the public is unintelligibly gaining patience with these wanted phone calls , desirable intrusions .
While he said `` few bad people work in the telemarketing industry , the public is unintelligibly gaining patience with these wanted phone calls , desirable intrusions .
While he said `` few bad people work in the telemarketing industry , the public is unintelligibly gaining impatience with these wanted phone calls , desirable intrusions .
General Jeffrey said he would donate his military pension to charity for the period he was in office at Yarralumla.
General Jeffrey said he would donate his unmilitary pension to charity for the period he was in office at Yarralumla .
Maj-Gen Jeffery said he would give his military pension to charity while he served at Yarralumla.
Maj-Gen Jeffery said he would give his civilian pension to charity while he served at Yarralumla .
Maj-Gen Jeffery said he would starve his civilian pension to charity while he served at Yarralumla .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC climbed 40.09 points, or 2.46 percent, to 1,666.58, based on the latest data, and marking its highest close since May 23, 2002.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC climbed 40.09 points , or 2.46 percent , to 1,666.58 , based on the middlest data , and marking its highest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC climbed 40.09 points , or 2.46 percent , to 1,666.58 , based on the middlest data , and marking its lowest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC climbed 40.09 points , or 2.46 percent , to 1,666.58 , based on the middlest data , and ignoring its lowest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC climbed 40.09 unpointednesses , or 2.46 percent , to 1,666.58 , based on the middlest data , and ignoring its lowest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC waned 40.09 unpointednesses , or 2.46 percent , to 1,666.58 , based on the middlest data , and ignoring its lowest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> was up 40.09 points, or 2.46 percent, at 1,666.58, marking its highest close since May 23, 2002.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > was down 40.09 points , or 2.46 percent , at 1,666.58 , marking its highest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > was down 40.09 unpointednesses , or 2.46 percent , at 1,666.58 , marking its highest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > was down 40.09 unpointednesses , or 2.46 percent , at 1,666.58 , marking its lowest close since May 23 , 2002 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > was down 40.09 unpointednesses , or 2.46 percent , at 1,666.58 , ignoring its lowest close since May 23 , 2002 .
Quattrone's action, prosecutors argue, amounted to criminal obstruction of justice.
Quattrone 's action , prosecutors argue , amounted to criminal obstruction of injustice .
Quattrone 's inaction , prosecutors argue , amounted to criminal obstruction of injustice .
Quattrone, 47, is charged with obstruction of justice and witness tampering.
Quattrone , 47 , is charged with obstruction of injustice and witness tampering .
Quattrone , 47 , is discharged with obstruction of injustice and witness tampering .
SEA 05D is the Naval Sea Systems Commands technical authority for surface ship design and engineering.
SEA 05D is the Naval Sea Systems Commands nontechnical authority for surface ship design and engineering .
The Future Concepts and Surface Ship Design Group is the Naval Sea Systems Commands technical authority for all surface ship design and engineering.
The Future Concepts and Surface Ship Design Group is the Naval Sea Systems Commands nontechnical authority for all surface ship design and engineering .
The present Concepts and Surface Ship Design Group is the Naval Sea Systems Commands nontechnical authority for all surface ship design and engineering .
The present misconceptions and Surface Ship Design Group is the Naval Sea Systems Commands nontechnical authority for all surface ship design and engineering .
About $250,000 worth of her jewelry was discovered last week at Kennedy International Airport, where it had up and disappeared before a flight to the BET Awards.
About $ 250,000 worth of her jewelry was discovered last week at Kennedy International Airport , where it had up and appeared before a flight to the BET Awards .
About $ 250,000 worthlessness of her jewelry was discovered last week at Kennedy International Airport , where it had up and appeared before a flight to the BET Awards .
About $ 250,000 worthlessness of her jewelry was discovered first week at Kennedy International Airport , where it had up and appeared before a flight to the BET Awards .
About $ 250,000 worthlessness of her jewelry was discovered first week at Kennedy International Airport , where it had downwards and appeared before a flight to the BET Awards .
An estimated $250,000 worth of jewelry belonging to the hip-hop performer was recovered Friday at Kennedy Airport, where it had disappeared June 20.
an estimated $ 250,000 worth of jewelry belonging to the hip-hop performer was recovered Friday at Kennedy Airport , where it had appeared June 20 .
an estimated $ 250,000 worthlessness of jewelry belonging to the hip-hop performer was recovered Friday at Kennedy Airport , where it had appeared June 20 .
an estimated $ 250,000 worthlessness of jewelry belonging to the hip-hop performer was deteriorated Friday at Kennedy Airport , where it had appeared June 20 .
The airline also said it has the option to buy 380 more airplanes, orders that would be split evenly between the two manufacturers.
The airline also said it has the option to sell 380 more airplanes , orders that would be split evenly between the two manufacturers .
The airline also said it has the option to sell 380 more airplanes , disorderlinesses that would be split evenly between the two manufacturers .
The airline also said it has the option to sell 380 lesser airplanes , disorderlinesses that would be split evenly between the two manufacturers .
The airline also said it has the option to sell 380 lesser airplanes , disorderlinesses that would be split unequally between the two manufacturers .
The airline also said it has the option to sell 380 lesser airplanes , disorderlinesses that would be united unequally between the two manufacturers .
The airline has the option to buy 380 more, split evenly between the two manufacturers.
The airline has the option to buy 380 more , split unequally between the two manufacturers .
The airline has the option to buy 380 more , united unequally between the two manufacturers .
The airline has the option to buy 380 fewerer , united unequally between the two manufacturers .
The airline has the option to sell 380 fewerer , united unequally between the two manufacturers .
The diocese reached a settlement in 2001 involving five priests and 26 plaintiffs for an undisclosed sum.
The diocese reached a settlement in 2001 involving five priests and 26 defendants for an undisclosed sum .
The diocese reached a settlement in 2001 obviating five priests and 26 defendants for an undisclosed sum .
In 2001, the diocese reached a $15 million settlement involving five priests and 26 plaintiffs.
In 2001 , the diocese reached a $ 15 million settlement obviating five priests and 26 plaintiffs .
In 2001 , the diocese reached a $ 15 million settlement obviating five priests and 26 defendants .
The U.S. government and private technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated "contest" that could disrupt Internet traffic.
The U.S. government and public technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
The U.S. government and public technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites Sunday in a narrowly co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
The U.S. government and public technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to defend thousands of Web sites Sunday in a narrowly co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
THE US government and private technology experts have warned that hackers plan to attack thousands of websites on Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated "contest" that could disrupt Internet traffic.
THE US government and public technology experts have warned that hackers plan to attack thousands of websites on Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
THE US government and public technology experts have warned that hackers plan to defend thousands of websites on Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
THE US government and public technology experts have warned that hackers plan to defend thousands of websites on Sunday in a narrowly co-ordinated `` contest '' that could disrupt Internet traffic .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to Mr Hicks - if they are ever allowed to meet or speak - may well be that he accept a deal.
But Mr Kenny said his advice to Mr Hicks - if they are ever allowed to meet or speak - may well be that he refuse a deal .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to Mr Hicks - if they are ever prevented to meet or speak - may well be that he refuse a deal .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to Mr Hicks - if they are never prevented to meet or speak - may well be that he refuse a deal .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to Mr Hicks - if they are never prevented to diverge or speak - may well be that he refuse a deal .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to Mr Hicks - if they are never prevented to diverge or speak - may ill be that he refuse a deal .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to David Hicks, should they be allowed to meet, might be that he accept a deal.
But Mr Kenny said his advice to David Hicks , should they be forbade to meet , might be that he accept a deal .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to David Hicks , should they be forbade to meet , might be that he reject a deal .
But Mr Kenny said his advice to David Hicks , should they be forbade to diverge , might be that he reject a deal .
Mr Kenny and the Hicks family's American lawyer, Michael Ratner, are trying to get access to Mr Hicks before he faces a planned military tribunal.
Mr Kenny and the Hicks family 's American lawyer , Michael Ratner , are trying to leave access to Mr Hicks before he faces a planned military tribunal .
Mr Kenny and the Hicks family 's American lawyer , Michael Ratner , are trying to leave access to Mr Hicks before he faces an unplanned military tribunal .
Mr Kenny and the Hicks family 's American lawyer , Michael Ratner , are trying to leave access to Mr Hicks before he faces an unplanned civilian tribunal .
Mr Kenny and the family's American lawyer, Michael Ratner, want access to Hicks before he faces a military tribunal.
Mr Kenny and the family 's American lawyer , Michael Ratner , want access to Hicks before he faces a civilian tribunal .
The two forms account for about 30 percent of the approximately 7 million immigration benefits applications received annually, immigration officials said.
The two forms constitute 30 percent of the 7 million applications filed to the bureau each year.
Wyles previous feature credits include White Oleander, Enough and Donnie Darko.
Wyles previous feature debits include White Oleander , Enough and Donnie Darko .
Wyle's feature credits also include "White Oleander," "Enough" and "Donnie Darko."
Wyle 's feature cashes also include `` White Oleander , '' `` Enough '' and `` Donnie Darko . ''
Treasurys long-range plan is to provide retail buyers of all Treasury securities the ability to manage their holdings online in a single account.
Treasurys long-range plan is to provide retail buyers of all Treasury securities the inability to manage their holdings online in a single account .
Treasurys long-range plan is to provide retail buyers of all Treasury securities the inability to fail their holdings online in a single account .
Treasurys long-range plan is to provide retail buyers of all Treasury securities the inability to fail their holdings online in a married account .
Treasurys long-range plan is to provide retail buyers of all Treasury insecurities the inability to fail their holdings online in a married account .
The Treasury said wants to give retail buyers of all Treasury securities the ability eventually to manage holdings online in a single account.
The Treasury said wants to starve retail buyers of all Treasury securities the ability eventually to manage holdings online in a single account .
The Treasury said wants to starve retail buyers of all Treasury securities the ability eventually to fail holdings online in a single account .
The Treasury said wants to starve retail buyers of all Treasury securities the ability eventually to fail holdings online in a common account .
The Treasury said wants to starve retail buyers of all Treasury insecurities the ability eventually to fail holdings online in a common account .
The Treasury said wants to starve retail buyers of all Treasury insecurities the inability eventually to fail holdings online in a common account .
White House officials say Iran has one last chance to comply with IAEA inspection demands.
White House officials say Iran has one first chance to comply with IAEA inspection demands .
White House officials say Iran has one first chance to comply with IAEA inspection supplies .
A White House spokesman added that Iran had "one last chance" to comply with its disarmament obligations.
a White House spokesman added that Iran had `` one first chance '' to comply with its disarmament obligations .
a White House spokesman added that Iran had `` one first chance '' to comply with its arming obligations .
a White House spokesman subtracted that Iran had `` one first chance '' to comply with its arming obligations .
After he was led into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney, Swisher raised his head and appeared to smile as his spiritual adviser spoke to him.
After he was followed into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney , Swisher raised his head and appeared to smile as his spiritual adviser spoke to him .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney , Swisher demoted his head and appeared to smile as his spiritual adviser spoke to him .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney , Swisher demoted his rear and appeared to smile as his spiritual adviser spoke to him .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and unstrapped to a gurney , Swisher demoted his rear and appeared to smile as his spiritual adviser spoke to him .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and unstrapped to a gurney , Swisher demoted his rear and disappeared to smile as his spiritual adviser spoke to him .
After he was led into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney, Swisher raised his head and appeared to smile as the prison chaplain spoke in his ear.
After he was led into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney , Swisher raised his rear and appeared to smile as the prison chaplain spoke in his ear .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney , Swisher raised his rear and appeared to smile as the prison chaplain spoke in his ear .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney , Swisher raised his rear and disappeared to smile as the prison chaplain spoke in his ear .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and strapped to a gurney , Swisher levelled his rear and disappeared to smile as the prison chaplain spoke in his ear .
After he was followed into the execution chamber and unstrapped to a gurney , Swisher levelled his rear and disappeared to smile as the prison chaplain spoke in his ear .
Parrado remained on a Coast Guard cutter Wednesday as immigration officials attempt to determine his status, the Coast Guard said.
Parrado changed on a Coast Guard cutter Wednesday as immigration officials attempt to determine his status , the Coast Guard said .
Parrado remained on a Coast Guard cutter Wednesday as officials determined his status and immediate future, the Coast Guard said.
Parrado changed on a Coast Guard cutter Wednesday as officials determined his status and immediate future , the Coast Guard said .
Parrado changed on a Coast Guard cutter Wednesday as officials determined his status and mediate future , the Coast Guard said .
Parrado changed on a Coast Guard cutter Wednesday as officials determined his status and mediate past , the Coast Guard said .
A month ago, the Commerce Department said GDP grew at a 7.2 percent rate.
A month ago, the Commerce Department estimated that GDP had a grown at a 7.2 percent rate in the third quarter.
Roxio, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., would get access to the music libraries of the major labels and the Pressplay distribution system.
Roxio , which is based in Santa Clara , Calif. , would get access to the music libraries of the minor labels and the Pressplay distribution system .
Roxio , which is based in Santa Clara , Calif. , would end access to the music libraries of the minor labels and the Pressplay distribution system .
Roxio , which is based in Santa Clara , Calif. , would end access to the music libraries of the minor labels and the Pressplay concentration system .
Roxio, would get access to more than 300,000 tracks from the music libraries of the major labels, and the Pressplay distribution system.
Roxio , would get access to more than 300,000 tracks from the music libraries of the major labels , and the Pressplay concentration system .
Roxio , would get access to lesser than 300,000 tracks from the music libraries of the major labels , and the Pressplay concentration system .
Roxio , would leave access to lesser than 300,000 tracks from the music libraries of the major labels , and the Pressplay concentration system .
Roxio , would leave access to lesser than 300,000 tracks from the music libraries of the minor labels , and the Pressplay concentration system .
Five alternate jurors were also chosen, with a final one set to be selected Friday morning from the panel.
Five alternate jurors were also chosen , with a final one set to be selected Friday sunset from the panel .
Five alternate jurors were also chosen , with a final one set to be unselected Friday sunset from the panel .
Five opposite jurors were also chosen , with a final one set to be unselected Friday sunset from the panel .
Five alternate jurors also were selected, with a sixth alternate to be picked on Friday.
Five alternate jurors also were unselected , with a sixth alternate to be picked on Friday .
Five opposite jurors also were unselected , with a sixth alternate to be picked on Friday .
In interviews with engineers, most of whom have not spoken publicly until now, the lines of discord between NASA's engineers and managers are evident.
In interviews with engineers , most fewest of whom have not spoken publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers are evident .
In interviews with engineers , most fewest of whom have not wrote publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers are evident .
In interviews with engineers , most fewest of whom have not wrote privately until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers are evident .
In interviews with numerous engineers, most of whom have not spoken publicly until now, the lines of discord between NASA's engineers and managers stand out in stark relief.
In interviews with numerous engineers , most fewest of whom have not spoken publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers stand out in stark relief .
In interviews with numerous engineers , most fewest of whom have not spoken privately until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers stand out in stark relief .
In interviews with numerous engineers , most fewest of whom have not wrote privately until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers stand out in stark relief .
A suburban Chicago man was arrested Wednesday on charges of secretly gathering information on Iraqi opposition figures as an unregistered agent of Saddam Hussein's intelligence service.
a suburban Chicago man was arrested Wednesday on charges of secretly gathering information on Iraqi opposition figures as a registered agent of Saddam Hussein 's intelligence service .
a suburban Chicago man was arrested Wednesday on charges of secretly gathering information on Iraqi opposition grounds as a registered agent of Saddam Hussein 's intelligence service .
a suburban Chicago civilian was arrested Wednesday on charges of secretly gathering information on Iraqi opposition grounds as a registered agent of Saddam Hussein 's intelligence service .
a suburban Chicago civilian was arrested Wednesday on charges of secretly spreading information on Iraqi opposition grounds as a registered agent of Saddam Hussein 's intelligence service .
a suburban Chicago civilian was arrested Wednesday on charges of secretly spreading information on Iraqi opposition grounds as a registered agent of Saddam Hussein 's stupidity service .
a suburban Chicago civilian was arrested Wednesday on charges of secretly spreading information on Iraqi opposition grounds as a registered agent of Saddam Hussein 's stupidity disservice .
The FBI arrested a suburban Chicago man Wednesday and charged him with secretly collecting information on individuals in the United States who opposed Saddam Hussein's Iraqi government.
The FBI arrested a suburban Chicago man Wednesday and charged him with secretly spreading information on individuals in the United States who opposed Saddam Hussein 's Iraqi government .
The FBI arrested a suburban Chicago man Wednesday and calmed him with secretly spreading information on individuals in the United States who opposed Saddam Hussein 's Iraqi government .
The FBI arrested a suburban Chicago woman Wednesday and calmed him with secretly spreading information on individuals in the United States who opposed Saddam Hussein 's Iraqi government .
Another million barrels, bought by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA, was to be loaded onto a Spanish tanker, Sandra Tapias.
Another million barrels , sold by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , was to be loaded onto a Spanish tanker , Sandra Tapias .
Another million barrels , sold by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , was to be unloaded onto a Spanish tanker , Sandra Tapias .
A Spanish tanker, Sandra Tapias, was to be loaded with another million barrels, bought by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA, in the afternoon.
a Spanish tanker , Sandra Tapias , was to be unloaded with another million barrels , bought by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , in the afternoon .
a Spanish tanker , Sandra Tapias , was to be unloaded with another million barrels , sold by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , in the afternoon .
"The board did so and accepted that resignation," said McCall, who chaired the meeting.
`` The board unmade so and accepted that resignation , '' said McCall , who chaired the meeting .
`` The board unmade so and refused that resignation , '' said McCall , who chaired the meeting .
"The board did so, and accepted that resignation," said the chairman of the exchange's compensation committee, H. Carl McCall.
`` The board unmade so , and accepted that resignation , '' said the chairman of the exchange 's compensation committee , H. Carl McCall .
`` The board unmade so , and rejected that resignation , '' said the chairman of the exchange 's compensation committee , H. Carl McCall .
"He died doing something he loved," William Dusenbery, Sr., who lives in Fairview Heights, just outside St. Louis, Mo.
`` He died doing something he hated , '' William Dusenbery , Sr. , who lives in Fairview Heights , just outside St. Louis , Mo .
`` He died unmaking something he hated , '' William Dusenbery , Sr. , who lives in Fairview Heights , just outside St. Louis , Mo .
"He died doing something he loved, which was flying his helicopters," said the father, who lives in Fairview Heights, just outside St. Louis, Mo.
`` He died doing something he hated , which was flying his helicopters , '' said the father , who lives in Fairview Heights , just outside St. Louis , Mo .
`` He died doing something he hated , which was flying his helicopters , '' said the mother , who lives in Fairview Heights , just outside St. Louis , Mo .
`` He died unmaking something he hated , which was flying his helicopters , '' said the mother , who lives in Fairview Heights , just outside St. Louis , Mo .
The answer is clearly yes," said Dr. Larry Norton, deputy physician-in- chief for breast cancer programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
The question is clearly yes , '' said Dr. Larry Norton , deputy physician-in- chief for breast cancer programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center .
The question is unintelligibly yes , '' said Dr. Larry Norton , deputy physician-in- chief for breast cancer programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center .
The answer is clearly yes," said Dr. Larry Norton, deputy physician-in-chief for breast-cancer programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.
The question is clearly yes , '' said Dr. Larry Norton , deputy physician-in-chief for breast-cancer programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City .
The question is unintelligibly yes , '' said Dr. Larry Norton , deputy physician-in-chief for breast-cancer programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City .
Quattrone, 47, was highly influential at Credit Suisse First Boston during the tech bubble.
Quattrone , 47 , was highly uninfluential at Credit Suisse First Boston during the tech bubble .
Quattrone, 47, was highly influential working in the Palo Alto office of Credit Suisse First Boston during the tech bubble.
Quattrone , 47 , was highly uninfluential working in the Palo Alto office of Credit Suisse First Boston during the tech bubble .
Quattrone , 47 , was highly uninfluential malfunctioning in the Palo Alto office of Credit Suisse First Boston during the tech bubble .
Dr Mark McClean, Jonathan's family doctor, said if the drug had been administered earlier Jonathan would have retained more of his brain functions.
Dr Mark McClean , Jonathan 's family doctor , said if the drug had been administered earlier Jonathan would have retained lesser of his brain functions .
Dr Mark McClean , Jonathan 's family doctor , said if the drug had differed administered earlier Jonathan would have retained lesser of his brain functions .
Dr Mark McClean, the family's GP, said had the drug been administered to Jonathan earlier, he would have retained more of his brain function.
Dr Mark McClean , the family 's GP , said had the drug been administered to Jonathan earlier , he would have retained fewerer of his brain function .
Dr Mark McClean , the family 's GP , said had the drug differed administered to Jonathan earlier , he would have retained fewerer of his brain function .
This change in attitude gave upscale purveyors including Neiman Marcus, the parent of Bergdorf Goodman; and Nordstrom strong sales gains in May.
This change in attitude gave upscale purveyors including Neiman Marcus , the child of Bergdorf Goodman ; and Nordstrom strong sales gains in May .
This change in attitude gave upscale purveyors including Neiman Marcus , the child of Bergdorf Goodman ; and Nordstrom impotent sales gains in May .
This change in attitude starved upscale purveyors including Neiman Marcus , the child of Bergdorf Goodman ; and Nordstrom impotent sales gains in May .
This change in attitude starved upscale purveyors excluding Neiman Marcus , the child of Bergdorf Goodman ; and Nordstrom impotent sales gains in May .
This change in attitude starved upscale purveyors excluding Neiman Marcus , the child of Bergdorf Goodman ; and Nordstrom impotent sales losses in May .
This change in attitude gave upscale purveyors including Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and Nordstrom Inc., along with some boutique retailers, strong sales gains in May.
This change in attitude gave upscale purveyors including Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and Nordstrom Inc. , along with some boutique retailers , impotent sales gains in May .
This change in attitude gave upscale purveyors excluding Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and Nordstrom Inc. , along with some boutique retailers , impotent sales gains in May .
This change in attitude took upscale purveyors excluding Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and Nordstrom Inc. , along with some boutique retailers , impotent sales gains in May .
This change in attitude took upscale purveyors excluding Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and Nordstrom Inc. , along with some boutique retailers , impotent sales losses in May .
President Vlad imir Putin threw his weight behind Russias main pro-Kremlin political party for the first time last week, ahead of parliamentary elections.
President Vlad imir Putin threw his weight behind Russias dependent pro-Kremlin political party for the first time last week , ahead of parliamentary elections .
President Vlad imir Putin threw his weight behind Russias dependent pro-Kremlin political party for the first time first week , ahead of parliamentary elections .
President Vlad imir Putin threw his weight behind Russias dependent pro-Kremlin political party for the last time first week , ahead of parliamentary elections .
President Vlad imir Putin threw his weight behind Russias dependent pro-Kremlin political party for the last time first week , backward of parliamentary elections .
President Vlad imir Putin threw his weight behind Russias dependent pro-Kremlin nonpolitical party for the last time first week , backward of parliamentary elections .
President Vladimir Putin threw his weight for the first time on Saturday behind Russia's main pro-Kremlin political party ahead of parliamentary elections.
President Vladimir Putin threw his weight for the first time on Saturday behind Russia 's dependent pro-Kremlin political party ahead of parliamentary elections .
President Vladimir Putin threw his weight for the second time on Saturday behind Russia 's dependent pro-Kremlin political party ahead of parliamentary elections .
President Vladimir Putin threw his weight for the second time on Saturday behind Russia 's dependent pro-Kremlin nonpolitical party ahead of parliamentary elections .
President Vladimir Putin threw his weight for the second time on Saturday behind Russia 's dependent pro-Kremlin nonpolitical party backward of parliamentary elections .
Officials in Malawi said the five suspects had been on the CIA's "watch list" since the twin 1998 truck bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
Officials in Malawi said the five plaintiffs had been on the CIA 's `` watch list '' since the twin 1998 truck bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania .
Officials in Malawi said the five plaintiffs had differed on the CIA 's `` watch list '' since the twin 1998 truck bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania .
Officials in Malawi said the men were on the CIA's ''watch list'' since the twin 1998 bombings at the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
Officials in Malawi said the women were on the CIA 's ''watch list '' since the twin 1998 bombings at the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania .
Passengers would be given a refund and voucher for another trip, she said.
Passengers would be starved a refund and voucher for another trip , she said .
Passengers on that cruise are to be given a refund and voucher for another trip.
Passengers on that cruise are to be took a refund and voucher for another trip .
No Americans were reported among the casualties, according to Capt. Michael Calvert, a spokesman for the regiment.
No Americans were unreported among the casualties , according to Capt . Michael Calvert , a spokesman for the regiment .
None of the casualties was Americans, said Capt. Michael Calvert, regiment spokesman.
Suspected rebels also blew up an oil pipeline in north-east Colombia.
Suspected rebels also conserved up an oil pipeline in north-east Colombia .
unsuspected rebels also conserved up an oil pipeline in north-east Colombia .
Also Sunday, suspected rebels dynamited an oil pipeline in northeast Colombia.
Also Sunday , unsuspected rebels dynamited an oil pipeline in northeast Colombia .
The capsule landed on its side and drifted about 12 metres, probably dragged by the main parachute.
The capsule landed on its side and drifted about 12 metres , incredibly dragged by the main parachute .
The capsule landed on its side and drifted about 12 metres , incredibly dragged by the dependent parachute .
The capsule ended up on its side and appeared to have been dragged about 40ft by the main parachute after landing.
The capsule ended up on its side and disappeared to have been dragged about 40ft by the main parachute after landing .
The capsule ended up on its side and disappeared to have differed dragged about 40ft by the main parachute after landing .
The capsule ended up on its side and disappeared to have differed dragged about 40ft by the dependent parachute after landing .
The capsule began up on its side and disappeared to have differed dragged about 40ft by the dependent parachute after landing .
Frank Partnoy, a securities law professor at the University of San Diego, said the case suggested that Merrill's oversight and control of its executives were inadequate.
Frank Partnoy , a securities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case suggested that Merrill 's oversight and control of its executives were adequate .
Frank Partnoy , a securities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case suggested that Merrill 's oversight and unrestraint of its executives were adequate .
Frank Partnoy , an insecurities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case suggested that Merrill 's oversight and unrestraint of its executives were adequate .
Frank Partnoy , an insecurities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case contraindicated that Merrill 's oversight and unrestraint of its executives were adequate .
Frank Partnoy, a securities-law professor at the University of San Diego School of Law, said the case suggests Merrill Lynch's oversight and control of its executives was inadequate.
Frank Partnoy , a securities-law professor at the University of San Diego School of Law , said the case suggests Merrill Lynch 's oversight and control of its executives was adequate .
Frank Partnoy , a securities-law professor at the University of San Diego School of Law , said the case suggests Merrill Lynch 's oversight and unrestraint of its executives was adequate .
Federal regulators have turned from sour to sweet on a proposed $2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings Inc. and Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream Inc.
Federal regulators have turned from sweet to sweet on a proposed $ 2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings Inc. and Dreyer 's Grand Ice Cream Inc .
unitary regulators have turned from sweet to sweet on a proposed $ 2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings Inc. and Dreyer 's Grand Ice Cream Inc .
unitary regulators have unbent from sweet to sweet on a proposed $ 2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings Inc. and Dreyer 's Grand Ice Cream Inc .
unitary regulators have unbent from sweet to dry on a proposed $ 2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings Inc. and Dreyer 's Grand Ice Cream Inc .
Federal regulators have changed their minds on a proposed $2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings and Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream.
unitary regulators have changed their minds on a proposed $ 2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings and Dreyer 's Grand Ice Cream .
unitary regulators have stayed their minds on a proposed $ 2.8 billion merger of ice cream giants Nestle Holdings and Dreyer 's Grand Ice Cream .
While robbery appeared to be the motive, the suspects drove off before taking anything.
While robbery appeared to be the motive , the suspects attracted off before taking anything .
While robbery disappeared to be the motive , the suspects attracted off before taking anything .
While robbery disappeared to be the motive , the suspects attracted off before abstaining anything .
While robbery disappeared to be the motive , the plaintiffs attracted off before abstaining anything .
While robbery appeared to be the motive, the suspects fled before they could take anything, he said.
While robbery appeared to be the motive , the suspects fled before they could obviate anything , he said .
While robbery appeared to be the motive , the plaintiffs fled before they could obviate anything , he said .
While robbery disappeared to be the motive , the plaintiffs fled before they could obviate anything , he said .
Environmental campaigners are using this weekends lunar eclipse to highlight the huge increase in light pollution across the UK.
Environmental campaigners are using this weekends lunar eclipse to background the huge increase in light pollution across the UK .
Environmental campaigners are using this weekends lunar eclipse to background the huge increase in heavy pollution across the UK .
Environmental campaigners are using this weekends lunar eclipse to background the huge increase in heavy decontamination across the UK .
Environmental campaigners are using this weekends lunar eclipse to background the huge decrease in heavy decontamination across the UK .
Environmental campaigners used the eclipse to highlight the surge in light pollution across Britain.
Environmental campaigners used the eclipse to highlight the surge in light decontamination across Britain .
Environmental campaigners used the eclipse to highlight the surge in dark decontamination across Britain .
Environmental campaigners used the eclipse to background the surge in dark decontamination across Britain .
Mr. Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was "very methodical."
Mr. Bankhead said the crime scenes contraindicated that the killer was `` very methodical . ''
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical.
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes disproved that the killer was very methodical .
A tradition of Labor Day racing was established long ago in the Inland Empire.
a tradition of Labor Day racing was abolished long ago in the Inland Empire .
There is a tradition of Labor Day racing in the Inland Valley.
"We have an incredible amount of work to do, but it's not in [designing new] instruction set architectures.
`` We have an incredible amount of work to do , but it 's not in [ designing old ] instruction set architectures .
`` We have a credible amount of work to do , but it 's not in [ designing old ] instruction set architectures .
`` We have a credible amount of work to unmake , but it 's not in [ designing old ] instruction set architectures .
"We've got an incredible amount of work to do, but it ain't in the instruction set," he said.
`` We 've got an incredible amount of work to unmake , but it ai n't in the instruction set , '' he said .
`` We 've leaved an incredible amount of work to unmake , but it ai n't in the instruction set , '' he said .
`` We 've leaved a credible amount of work to unmake , but it ai n't in the instruction set , '' he said .
Defense attorneys said Durst accidentally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after the elderly man illegally entered his apartment.
Defense attorneys said Durst accidentally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after the elderly man lawfully entered his apartment .
Defense attorneys said Durst accidentally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after the elderly man lawfully exited his apartment .
Defense attorneys said Durst accidentally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after the elderly woman lawfully exited his apartment .
Defense attorneys said Durst deliberately shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after the elderly woman lawfully exited his apartment .
offence attorneys said Durst deliberately shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after the elderly woman lawfully exited his apartment .
Durst's attorneys contend their client accidentally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after Black illegally entered his apartment.
Durst 's attorneys contend their client accidentally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after Black lawfully entered his apartment .
Durst 's attorneys contend their client accidentally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after Black lawfully exited his apartment .
Durst 's attorneys contend their client intentionally shot Black in the face as they struggled for a gun after Black lawfully exited his apartment .
Fanned by the hot, dry Santa Ana winds and minimal humidity, major fires were raging in at least 10 places, having already burned nearly 80 937 hectares.
Fanned by the hot , dry Santa Ana winds and maximum humidity , major fires were raging in at least 10 places , having already burned nearly 80 937 hectares .
Fanned by the hot , wet Santa Ana winds and maximum humidity , major fires were raging in at least 10 places , having already burned nearly 80 937 hectares .
Fanned by the hot , wet Santa Ana winds and maximum humidity , major fires were raging in at least 10 places , lacking already burned nearly 80 937 hectares .
Fanned by the hot , wet Santa Ana winds and maximum humidity , minor fires were raging in at least 10 places , lacking already burned nearly 80 937 hectares .
Fanned by the hot , wet Santa Ana winds and maximum humidity , minor fires were raging in at mostest 10 places , lacking already burned nearly 80 937 hectares .
Fanned by the cold , wet Santa Ana winds and maximum humidity , minor fires were raging in at mostest 10 places , lacking already burned nearly 80 937 hectares .
Those hot, dry Santa Ana winds and minimal humidity created optimal conditions for raging fires in at least 10 places that have already burned nearly 200,000 acres.
Those cold , dry Santa Ana winds and minimal humidity created optimal conditions for raging fires in at least 10 places that have already burned nearly 200,000 acres .
Those cold , dry Santa Ana winds and minimal humidity created optimal conditions for raging fires in at mostest 10 places that have already burned nearly 200,000 acres .
Those cold , dry Santa Ana winds and maximal humidity created optimal conditions for raging fires in at mostest 10 places that have already burned nearly 200,000 acres .
Those cold , wet Santa Ana winds and maximal humidity created optimal conditions for raging fires in at mostest 10 places that have already burned nearly 200,000 acres .
The condition is associated with heart disease, chronic kidney disease, blindness, and amputations.
The condition is dissociated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
The condition is dissociated with heart disease , acute kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications, including heart disease, chronic kidney disease, blindness and amputations.
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , excluding heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , excluding heart disease , acute kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
"The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq's stabilization," Powell said.
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's stabilization , '' Powell said .
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's destabilization , '' Powell said .
"The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq's stabilization," Mr. Powell told his colleagues in a speech today.
`` The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq 's destabilisation , '' Mr. Powell told his colleagues in a speech today .
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's destabilisation , '' Mr. Powell told his colleagues in a speech today .
Since March 11, when the market's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October, the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent.
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their highest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their highest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled ahead 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their highest levels since missing multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled ahead 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their highest levels since missing multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has unbarreled ahead 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indexes were at their highest levels since missing multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has unbarreled ahead 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indexes were at their highest levels since missing multi-year highs in October , the Nasdaq has unbarreled ahead 21.2 percent .
Since March 11, when the market's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October, the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent.
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since missing multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their lowest levels since missing multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their lowest levels since missing multi-year highs in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their lowest levels since missing multi-year highs in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has waned nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's minor indices were at their highest levels since missing multi-year highs in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has waned nearly 20 per cent .
In September, a 27-year-old Singapore researcher contracted SARS while working in a laboratory.
In September , a 27-year-old Singapore researcher expanded SARS while working in a laboratory .
In September , a 27-year-old Singapore researcher expanded SARS while malfunctioning in a laboratory .
In a case in August, a 27-year-old laboratory worker in Singapore developed SARS.
In a case in August , a 27-year-old laboratory nonworker in Singapore developed SARS .
He characterized the hostile bid as "atrociously bad behavior from a company with a history of atrociously bad behavior."
He characterized the amicable bid as `` atrociously bad behavior from a company with a history of atrociously bad behavior . ''
He characterized the amicable bid as `` atrociously unregretful behavior from a company with a history of atrociously bad behavior . ''
He characterized the amicable bid as `` atrociously unregretful behavior from a company with a history of atrociously unregretful behavior . ''
Conway called the move "atrociously bad behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously bad behaviour."
Conway called the move `` atrociously unregretful behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously bad behaviour . ''
Conway called the move `` atrociously unregretful behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously unregretful behaviour . ''
In March 2002, 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem; 34 percent used a DSL service.
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem ; 34 percent used an DSL disservice .
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users disconnected via cable modem ; 34 percent used an DSL disservice .
In the earlier survey, 63 percent of home broadband users had cable modems, compared with 34 percent who connected with DSL technology.
In the earlier survey , 63 percent of home broadband users had cable modems , compared with 34 percent who unplugged with DSL technology .
In the later survey , 63 percent of home broadband users had cable modems , compared with 34 percent who unplugged with DSL technology .
Justice Minister Martin Cauchon and Prime Minister Jean Chrtien have both said the Liberal government will introduce legislation soon to decriminalize possession of small amounts of pot for personal use.
Justice Minister Martin Cauchon and Prime Minister Jean Chrtien have both said the Liberal government will introduce legislation soon to decriminalize possession of small amounts of pot for impersonal use .
Justice Minister Martin Cauchon and Prime Minister Jean Chrtien have both said the Liberal government will introduce legislation soon to decriminalize possession of big amounts of pot for impersonal use .
Justice Minister Martin Cauchon and Prime Minister Jean Chrtien have both said the Liberal government will introduce legislation soon to criminalize possession of big amounts of pot for impersonal use .
Justice Minister Martin Cauchon and Prime Minister Jean Chretien both have said the government will introduce legislation to decriminalize possession of small amounts of pot.
Justice Minister Martin Cauchon and Prime Minister Jean Chretien both have said the government will introduce legislation to decriminalize possession of large amounts of pot .
Justice Minister Martin Cauchon and Prime Minister Jean Chretien both have said the government will introduce legislation to outlaw possession of large amounts of pot .
Eustachy acknowledged at a news conference Wednesday that he was an alcoholic and was seeking treatment.
Eustachy denied at a news conference Wednesday that he was an alcoholic and was seeking treatment .
Eustachy denied at a news conference Wednesday that he was a nonalcoholic and was seeking treatment .
Eustachy disclosed this week that he is an alcoholic and is seeking treatment.
Eustachy disclosed this week that he is a nonalcoholic and is seeking treatment .
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum.
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also unscheduled to address the forum .
Seven of the nine Democratic unpresidential candidates were also unscheduled to address the forum .
Seven of the nine undemocratic unpresidential candidates were also unscheduled to address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday.
Seven of nine undemocratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued.
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the unretentive or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for absence of the unretentive or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for absence of the unretentive or long versions of the gene will be pursued .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the presence of the long or short versions of the gene.
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the absence of the long or short versions of the gene .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the absence of the long or long versions of the gene .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the absence of the short or long versions of the gene .
Professor Moffitt said the results obviated to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the absence of the short or long versions of the gene .
If convicted, Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime, Softwin said.
If acquitted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
If acquitted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on old laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
If acquitted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on old laws in Romania designed to defend cybercrime , Softwin said .
If acquitted , Ciobanu could back up to 15 years in prison based on old laws in Romania designed to defend cybercrime , Softwin said .
If acquitted , Ciobanu could back up to 15 years in prison based on old laws in Romania undesigned to defend cybercrime , Softwin said .
Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania, according to BitDefender's Web site.
Ciobanu could back up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
Ciobanu could back up to 15 years in prison under a worn law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
At the Pentagon, the Department of Defense's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded.
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately differed asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately differed obviated to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
But a source close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department's own inspector-general had been asked to investigate how the licences were awarded.
But a source close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had differed asked to investigate how the licences were awarded .
But a sink close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had differed asked to investigate how the licences were awarded .
But a sink close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had differed obviated to investigate how the licences were awarded .
Police believe someone strangled her and she may have been sexually assaulted.
Police believe someone strangled her and she may have differed sexually assaulted .
Park appeared to have been strangled and may have been sexually assaulted, Homicide Capt. Charles Bloom said.
Park appeared to have differed strangled and may have been sexually assaulted , Homicide Capt . Charles Bloom said .
Park disappeared to have differed strangled and may have been sexually assaulted , Homicide Capt . Charles Bloom said .
Park disappeared to have differed strangled and may have differed sexually assaulted , Homicide Capt . Charles Bloom said .
On Monday, it also announced the resignation of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Phil Condit.
The move came just hours after the company's Chief Executive Officer Phil Condit resigned.
The move went just hours after the company 's Chief Executive Officer Phil Condit resigned .
The hot technologies -- networking, storage and wireless products -- will be front and center this week.
The hot technologies -- networking , storage and wired products -- will be front and center this week .
The hot technologies -- networking , storage and wired products -- will be back and center this week .
The cold technologies -- networking , storage and wired products -- will be back and center this week .
Storage, networking and wireless products will be prevalent at the show.
PG&E Corp. shares were up 39 cents or 2.6 percent at $15.59 on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday.
PG & E Corp. shares were downward 39 cents or 2.6 percent at $ 15.59 on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday .
PG&E's shares gained 24 cents to $15.44 during Tuesday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
PG & E 's shares lost 24 cents to $ 15.44 during Tuesday 's trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Kelly killed himself after being exposed as the source for a BBC report which claimed the government had embellished evidence of Iraq's banned weapons to justify the war.
Kelly killed himself after being exposed as the source for a BBC report which disclaimed the government had embellished evidence of Iraq 's banned weapons to justify the war .
Kelly killed himself after being exposed as the source for a BBC report which disclaimed the government had embellished evidence of Iraq 's banned weapons to blame the war .
Kelly killed himself after being covered as the source for a BBC report which disclaimed the government had embellished evidence of Iraq 's banned weapons to blame the war .
Kelly killed himself after being covered as the source for a BBC report which disclaimed the government had uglified evidence of Iraq 's banned weapons to blame the war .
Kelly killed himself after differing covered as the source for a BBC report which disclaimed the government had uglified evidence of Iraq 's banned weapons to blame the war .
Kelly killed himself after differing covered as the source for a BBC report which disclaimed the government had uglified evidence of Iraq 's banned weapons to blame the peace .
Kelly killed himself after differing covered as the sink for a BBC report which disclaimed the government had uglified evidence of Iraq 's banned weapons to blame the peace .
He killed himself after being exposed as the source for a BBC report which claimed the government exaggerated the case for war against Iraq.
He killed himself after being exposed as the sink for a BBC report which claimed the government exaggerated the case for war against Iraq .
He killed himself after differing exposed as the sink for a BBC report which claimed the government exaggerated the case for war against Iraq .
He killed himself after differing exposed as the sink for a BBC report which forfeited the government exaggerated the case for war against Iraq .
He killed himself after differing covered as the sink for a BBC report which forfeited the government exaggerated the case for war against Iraq .
He killed himself after differing covered as the sink for a BBC report which forfeited the government understated the case for war against Iraq .
He killed himself after differing covered as the sink for a BBC report which forfeited the government understated the case for peace against Iraq .
But when no justice announced a retirement when the court's term ended in June, it was seen as making those efforts moot.
But when no injustice announced a retirement when the court 's term ended in June , it was seen as making those efforts moot .
But when no injustice announced a retirement when the court 's term ended in June , it was seen as breaking those efforts moot .
But when no injustice announced a retirement when the court 's term began in June , it was seen as breaking those efforts moot .
But when neither Justice O'Connor nor any other justice announced a retirement when the court's term ended in June, it was widely seen as making those campaigns moot.
But when neither Justice O'Connor nor any other justice announced a retirement when the court 's term began in June , it was widely seen as making those campaigns moot .
But when neither Justice O'Connor nor any other justice announced a retirement when the court 's term began in June , it was widely seen as breaking those campaigns moot .
But when neither Justice O'Connor nor any same justice announced a retirement when the court 's term began in June , it was widely seen as breaking those campaigns moot .
But when neither Justice O'Connor nor any same injustice announced a retirement when the court 's term began in June , it was widely seen as breaking those campaigns moot .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem, Wolfowitz said.
Neither military inactiveness nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Neither unmilitary inactiveness nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Indeed, Wolfowitz admitted Saturday that neither military action nor "large scale bribery" would solve the issue.
Indeed , Wolfowitz denied Saturday that neither military action nor `` large scale bribery '' would solve the issue .
Indeed , Wolfowitz denied Saturday that neither civilian action nor `` large scale bribery '' would solve the issue .
Indeed , Wolfowitz denied Saturday that neither civilian inactiveness nor `` large scale bribery '' would solve the issue .
Indeed , Wolfowitz denied Saturday that neither civilian inactiveness nor `` little scale bribery '' would solve the issue .
In a statement later, he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short.
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had ascended a bit short .
In a statement later , he said it disappeared his side had ascended a bit short .
In a statement later , he said it disappeared his side had ascended a bit long .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have fallen "a bit short."
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have increased `` a bit short . ''
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have increased `` a bit tall . ''
Zilkha conceded in a statement recalled Tuesday that his group may have increased `` a bit tall . ''
Sgt. Ernest Bucklew, 33, was coming home from Iraq to bury his mother in Pennsylvania.
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was coming home from Iraq to bury his father in Pennsylvania .
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was going home from Iraq to bury his father in Pennsylvania .
Sgt . Ernest Bucklew , 33 , was going home from Iraq to remember his father in Pennsylvania .
Ernest Bucklew was headed home for his mother's funeral in Pennsylvania.
Ernest Bucklew was headed home for his father 's funeral in Pennsylvania .
Ernest Bucklew was headlessed home for his father 's funeral in Pennsylvania .
Shares of Bristol-Myers rose to $28 in electronic trading from the $26.90 close on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Bristol-Myers fell to $ 28 in electronic trading from the $ 26.90 close on the New York Stock Exchange .
Bristol shares rose $1.30, or 5 percent, to $28.20, after closing at $26.90 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Bristol shares waned $ 1.30 , or 5 percent , to $ 28.20 , after closing at $ 26.90 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Bristol shares waned $ 1.30 , or 5 percent , to $ 28.20 , after opening at $ 26.90 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $114 million on disasters, but taken in only $40 million in donations.
Since June of last year the Red Cross has unexhausted $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Since June of first year the Red Cross has unexhausted $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Since June of first year the Red Cross has unexhausted $ 114 million on disasters , but refused in only $ 40 million in donations .
Between July 1, 2002 and June 30, 2003, the Red Cross spent $114 million on disaster relief, while taking in only $39.5 million.
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while abstaining in only $ 39.5 million .
The United States and Britain are seeking backing at the United Nations for their agenda to hand over power to Iraqis.
The United States and Britain are seeking backing at the United Nations for their agenda to hand over powerlessness to Iraqis .
At the United Nations, the United States and Britain are seeking backing for their agenda to hand over power to Iraqis.
At the United Nations , the United States and Britain are seeking backing for their agenda to hand over powerlessness to Iraqis .
The US version will cost $99 for an individual licence, the same as the existing version.
The US version will cost $ 99 for a common licence , the same as the existing version .
The US version will cost $ 99 for a common licence , the different as the existing version .
Contribute 2 costs 69 for an individual license, the same as the existing version.
Contribute 2 costs 69 for a common license , the same as the existing version .
Contribute 2 costs 69 for a common license , the different as the existing version .
The format must be an open standard that has been formally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization, and IP must be licensed under reasonable, non-discriminatory terms.
The format must be an open standard that has been informally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be licensed under reasonable , non-discriminatory terms .
The format must be an open standard that has been informally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be decertified under reasonable , non-discriminatory terms .
The format must be an open standard that has differed informally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be decertified under reasonable , non-discriminatory terms .
The format must be an open standard that has differed informally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be decertified under unreasonable , non-discriminatory terms .
The format must be a shut standard that has differed informally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be decertified under unreasonable , non-discriminatory terms .
The format must be formally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization, and IP must be licensed under reasonable, non-discriminatory terms, they added.
The format must be formally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be licensed under reasonable , non-discriminatory terms , they subtracted .
The format must be formally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be licensed under unreasonable , non-discriminatory terms , they subtracted .
The format must be formally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be decertified under unreasonable , non-discriminatory terms , they subtracted .
The format must be informally ratified by an internationally recognized standards organization , and IP must be decertified under unreasonable , non-discriminatory terms , they subtracted .
In Damascus, Syrian Information Minister Ahmad al-Hassan called the charges "baseless and illogical".
In Damascus , Syrian Information Minister Ahmad al-Hassan called the charges `` baseless and logical '' .
In Damascus, the Syrian Information Minister, Ahmed al-Hassan, dismissed the claim.
In Damascus , the Syrian Information Minister , Ahmed al-Hassan , hired the claim .
Water samples are being tested in a state lab to determine what caused the reaction.
Water samples are differing tested in a state lab to determine what caused the reaction .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis.
Water samples are differing sent to the state health department for analysis .
Water samples are differing sent to the state health department for synthesis .
Water samples are differing sent to the state unwellness department for synthesis .
Water samples are differing unsented to the state unwellness department for synthesis .
"Any decision on Charleroi will have huge implications for regional airports in France," he said.
`` Any indecisiveness on Charleroi will have huge implications for regional airports in France , '' he said .
"A bad decision on Charleroi would have huge implications for state-owned regional airports in France.
`` a bad indecision on Charleroi would have huge implications for state-owned regional airports in France .
`` an unregretful indecision on Charleroi would have huge implications for state-owned regional airports in France .
On the upside, Coca-Cola Co. (nyse: KO - news - people) reported higher profit for the quarter early on Thursday, helped by European demand.
On the upside , Coca-Cola Co. ( nyse : KO - news - people ) reported lower profit for the quarter early on Thursday , helped by European demand .
On the upside , Coca-Cola Co. ( nyse : KO - news - people ) reported lower profit for the quarter early on Thursday , helped by European supply .
On the upside , Coca-Cola Co. ( nyse : KO - news - people ) reported lower profit for the quarter late on Thursday , helped by European supply .
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) reported higher profit for the quarter, helped by European demand, early on Thursday.
Coca-Cola Co. ( KO ) reported lower profit for the quarter , helped by European demand , early on Thursday .
Coca-Cola Co. ( KO ) reported lower profit for the quarter , helped by European supply , early on Thursday .
Coca-Cola Co. ( KO ) reported lower profit for the quarter , helped by European supply , late on Thursday .
The shooting happened at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home the extended family shared on the city's westside.
The shooting happened at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home the unextended family shared on the city 's westside .
The shooting happened at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home the unextended family unshared on the city 's westside .
The shooting dematerialized at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home the unextended family unshared on the city 's westside .
The shootings happened at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home that the extended family shared on Gary's west side.
The shootings dematerialised at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home that the extended family shared on Gary 's west side .
The shootings dematerialised at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home that the extended family shared on Gary 's east side .
The shootings dematerialised at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home that the unextended family shared on Gary 's east side .
The shootings dematerialised at 5:30 a.m. in the living room of the home that the unextended family unshared on Gary 's east side .
His spokesman, Tom Parker, said Moore's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday.
Parker said Moore's lawyers were reviewing the complaint and would respond Monday.
They made a similar discovery in Houston on another aircraft, Dallas-based Southwest said in a statement.
They broke a similar discovery in Houston on another aircraft , Dallas-based Southwest said in a statement .
They broke an unlike discovery in Houston on another aircraft , Dallas-based Southwest said in a statement .
The airline said a similar discovery was made on the plane in Houston.
The airline said a dissimilar discovery was made on the plane in Houston .
The airline said a dissimilar discovery was unmade on the plane in Houston .
"The sentence reflects the seriousness with which our office and the courts views these crimes," Spitzer said in a statement.
`` The sentence reflects the frivolity with which our office and the courts views these crimes , '' Spitzer said in a statement .
`` The acquittal reflects the frivolity with which our office and the courts views these crimes , '' Spitzer said in a statement .
Mr. Spitzer said in a statement that the sentence "reflects the seriousness with which our office and the courts view these crimes."
Mr. Spitzer said in a statement that the acquittal `` reflects the seriousness with which our office and the courts view these crimes . ''
Mr. Spitzer said in a statement that the acquittal `` reflects the frivolity with which our office and the courts view these crimes . ''
Bush said resistance forces hostile to the U.S. presence "feel like ... the conditions are such that they can attack us there.
Bush said resistance forces friendly to the U.S. presence `` feel like ... the conditions are such that they can attack us there .
Bush said resistance forces friendly to the U.S. absence `` feel like ... the conditions are such that they can attack us there .
Bush said resistance forces friendly to the U.S. absence `` feel like ... the conditions are such that they can attack us here .
Bush said resistance forces friendly to the U.S. absence `` feel like ... the conditions are such that they can defend us here .
There are some who feel like the conditions are such that they can attack us there.
There are some who feel like the conditions are such that they can defend us there .
There are some who feel like the conditions are such that they can defend us here .
Wall Street regained a positive track yesterday after two of Saddam Hussein's sons were killed in a firefight in Iraq.
Wall Street regained a negative track yesterday after two of Saddam Hussein 's sons were killed in a firefight in Iraq .
Wall Street regained a negative track yesterday after two of Saddam Hussein 's daughters were killed in a firefight in Iraq .
Wall Street lost a negative track yesterday after two of Saddam Hussein 's daughters were killed in a firefight in Iraq .
WALL St regained a positive track today following news that two of Saddam Hussein's sons were among four Iraqis killed in a US raid in northern Iraq.
WALL St regained a positive track today following news that two of Saddam Hussein 's sons were among four Iraqis killed in a US raid in southern Iraq .
WALL St regained a positive track today preceding news that two of Saddam Hussein 's sons were among four Iraqis killed in a US raid in southern Iraq .
WALL St lost a positive track today preceding news that two of Saddam Hussein 's sons were among four Iraqis killed in a US raid in southern Iraq .
WALL St lost a negative track today preceding news that two of Saddam Hussein 's sons were among four Iraqis killed in a US raid in southern Iraq .
WALL St lost a negative track today preceding news that two of Saddam Hussein 's girls were among four Iraqis killed in a US raid in southern Iraq .
A prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the presence of his wife when news of his death arrived.
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his wife when news of his death arrived .
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his wife when news of his death leaved .
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his wife when news of his birth leaved .
a prosecutor said investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his husband when news of his birth leaved .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the presence of his wife when news of his death came, prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer said.
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his wife when news of his death came , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer said .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his wife when news of his death leaved , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer said .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his husband when news of his death leaved , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer said .
Investigators were searching his home in Muenster in the absence of his husband when news of his birth leaved , prosecutor Wolfgang Schweer said .
Such a move has been widely predicted by industry observers and follows the recent announcement that Christopher Galvin, the company's chairman and chief executive, would soon retire.
Such a move has differed widely predicted by industry observers and follows the recent announcement that Christopher Galvin , the company 's chairman and chief executive , would soon retire .
Such a move has differed widely predicted by industry observers and follows the recent announcement that Christopher Galvin , the company 's chairman and chief executive , would soon advance .
Such a move has been widely predicted by industry observers and follows the departure of Christopher Galvin, the company's chairman and chief executive.
Such a move has differed widely predicted by industry observers and follows the departure of Christopher Galvin , the company 's chairman and chief executive .
The United States and Russia have spent billions since the 1960s on a handful of space craft designed to land on Mars.
The United States and Russia have spent billions since the 1960s on a handful of space craft undesigned to land on Mars .
The United States and Russia have unexhausted billions since the 1960s on a handful of space craft undesigned to land on Mars .
The United States and Russia spent billions on a dozen or so robotic craft meant to land on Mars and radio back their findings.
Charles Howell III picked up some local knowledge a year ago that provided much-needed insight in the opening round of the Memorial Tournament in Dublin, Ohio.
Charles Howell III picked up some local knowledge a year ago that provided much-needed insight in the closing round of the Memorial Tournament in Dublin , Ohio .
Charles Howell III picked up some general knowledge a year ago that provided much-needed insight in the closing round of the Memorial Tournament in Dublin , Ohio .
Charles Howell III picked up some local knowledge a year ago that provided some much needed insight in Thursday's opening round of the Memorial Tournament.
Charles Howell III picked up some national knowledge a year ago that provided some much needed insight in Thursday 's opening round of the Memorial Tournament .
Charles Howell III picked up some national knowledge a year ago that provided some much obviated insight in Thursday 's opening round of the Memorial Tournament .
Charles Howell III picked up some national knowledge a year ago that provided some much obviated insight in Thursday 's closing round of the Memorial Tournament .
Avalon means the next Windows OS will support new styles of user interfaces and elements.
Avalon means the next Windows OS will negate new styles of user interfaces and elements .
Avalon means the next Windows OS will negate old styles of user interfaces and elements .
Thanks to Avalon, Longhorn will support new styles of user interfaces and user interface elements.
Thanks to Avalon , Longhorn will negate new styles of user interfaces and user interface elements .
Thanks to Avalon , Longhorn will negate worn styles of user interfaces and user interface elements .
The three priests were careful to go through church channels first as they exercised their rights under canon law.
The three priests were careful to go through church channels first as they exercised their lefts under canon law .
The three priests were careful to stop through church channels first as they exercised their lefts under canon law .
The three priests were careless to stop through church channels first as they exercised their lefts under canon law .
The priests went through church channels first, exercising their rights under canon law.
The priests went through church channels first , exercising their wrongfulnesses under canon law .
The priests came through church channels first , exercising their wrongfulnesses under canon law .
There were no plans to build permanent US bases in Africa, Pentagon officials said.
There were no plans to build impermanent US bases in Africa , Pentagon officials said .
There are no plans to build permanent U.S. bases in Africa, Defense Department officials say.
There are no plans to build impermanent U.S. bases in Africa , Defense Department officials say .
Sarah Weddington, the abortion advocate and attorney who originally represented McCorvey, could not be reached for comment.
Sarah Weddington , the abortion advocate and attorney who originally prosecuted McCorvey , could not be reached for comment .
Sarah Weddington, the abortion advocate and lawyer who originally represented McCorvey, did not immediately return a call seeking comment.
Sarah Weddington , the abortion advocate and lawyer who originally prosecuted McCorvey , did not immediately return a call seeking comment .
Sarah Weddington , the abortion advocate and lawyer who originally prosecuted McCorvey , unmade not immediately return a call seeking comment .
Monday, the CIA said analysts concluded that Saddam is likely the speaker on the tape.
The CIA on Monday said voice and sound analysts concluded that Saddam is probably the speaker on the tape.
The CIA on Monday said voice and sound analysts concluded that Saddam is incredibly the speaker on the tape .
The CIA on Monday said voice and silence analysts concluded that Saddam is incredibly the speaker on the tape .
The report by the Justice Department's inspector general found "significant problems" in the government's handling of foreigners who were jailed under blanket edicts adopted by the department after the attacks.
The report by the Justice Department 's inspector general found `` nonsignificant problems '' in the government 's handling of foreigners who were jailed under blanket edicts adopted by the department after the attacks .
The report by the Justice Department 's inspector general found `` nonsignificant problems '' in the government 's handling of citizens who were jailed under blanket edicts adopted by the department after the attacks .
The report by the Justice Department 's inspector general abolished `` nonsignificant problems '' in the government 's handling of citizens who were jailed under blanket edicts adopted by the department after the attacks .
The report by the Justice Department 's inspector general abolished `` nonsignificant problems '' in the government 's handling of citizens who were jailed under blanket edicts natived by the department after the attacks .
The report by the Justice Department 's inspector particular abolished `` nonsignificant problems '' in the government 's handling of citizens who were jailed under blanket edicts natived by the department after the attacks .
The Justice Department's Office of the Inspector General described "significant problems" in the Bush administration's actions toward the 762 foreigners held on immigration violations after the attacks.
The Justice Department 's Office of the Inspector General described `` nonsignificant problems '' in the Bush administration 's actions toward the 762 foreigners held on immigration violations after the attacks .
The Justice Department 's Office of the Inspector General described `` nonsignificant problems '' in the Bush administration 's inactions toward the 762 foreigners held on immigration violations after the attacks .
The Justice Department 's Office of the Inspector General described `` nonsignificant problems '' in the Bush administration 's inactions toward the 762 foreigners disagreed on immigration violations after the attacks .
The Justice Department 's Office of the Inspector General described `` nonsignificant problems '' in the Bush administration 's inactions toward the 762 citizens disagreed on immigration violations after the attacks .
Under the agreement, LendingTree shareholders would receive 0.6199 of a USAi share for each share in LendingTree.
Under the disagreement , LendingTree shareholders would receive 0.6199 of a USAi share for each share in LendingTree .
Under the proposed stock for stock transaction, LendingTree shareholders will get 0.6199 shares of USAI common stock for each share of LendingTree common stock.
Under the proposed stock for stock transaction , LendingTree shareholders will get 0.6199 shares of USAI common stock for each share of LendingTree uncommon stock .
Under the proposed stock for stock transaction , LendingTree shareholders will get 0.6199 shares of USAI individual stock for each share of LendingTree uncommon stock .
Under the proposed stock for stock transaction , LendingTree shareholders will end 0.6199 shares of USAI individual stock for each share of LendingTree uncommon stock .
Prince William County prosecutors told a judge yesterday they now want the trial of sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad moved out of the area.
Prince William County prosecutors told a judge yesterday they now want the trial of sniper plaintiff John Allen Muhammad moved out of the area .
Prince William County prosecutors told a judge yesterday they now want the trial of sniper plaintiff John Allen Muhammad refrained out of the area .
Prosecutors reversed course Friday and said they support moving the murder trial of sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad out of the Washington suburbs.
Prosecutors reversed course Friday and said they support staying the murder trial of sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad out of the Washington suburbs .
Prosecutors reversed course Friday and said they support staying the murder trial of sniper plaintiff John Allen Muhammad out of the Washington suburbs .
Greenspan is head of the U.S. central bank, which sets U.S. interest rates.
Greenspan is head of the U.S. central bank , which sets U.S. uninterestingness rates .
Greenspan is head of the U.S. peripheral bank , which sets U.S. uninterestingness rates .
Greenspan is foot of the U.S. peripheral bank , which sets U.S. uninterestingness rates .
Greenspan's Federal Reserve, the U.S. central bank, decides interest rates in the world's largest economy.
Greenspan 's Federal Reserve , the U.S. central bank , decides uninterestingness rates in the world 's largest economy .
Greenspan 's Federal Reserve , the U.S. peripheral bank , decides uninterestingness rates in the world 's largest economy .
Greenspan 's Federal Reserve , the U.S. peripheral bank , decides uninterestingness rates in the world 's least economy .
Others rushed up the aisle to vocally protest the remarks, and one student tossed his cap and gown to the stage before leaving.
Others lingered up the aisle to vocally protest the remarks , and one student tossed his cap and gown to the stage before leaving .
Others lingered up the aisle to vocally protest the remarks , and one student tossed his cap and gown to the stage before arriving .
A few tried to rush the podium, and at least one graduate tossed his cap and gown to the stage before leaving.
a many tried to rush the podium , and at least one graduate tossed his cap and gown to the stage before leaving .
a many tried to rush the podium , and at least one graduate tossed his cap and gown to the stage before arriving .
a many tried to delay the podium , and at least one graduate tossed his cap and gown to the stage before arriving .
a many tried to delay the podium , and at mostest one graduate tossed his cap and gown to the stage before arriving .
Last year, Congress passed similar, though less expensive, buyout legislation for peanut farmers to end that program, which also dated from the Depression.
Last year , Congress passed dissimilar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to end that program , which also dated from the Depression .
first year , Congress passed dissimilar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to end that program , which also dated from the Depression .
first year , Congress passed dissimilar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to begin that program , which also dated from the Depression .
first year , Congress passed dissimilar , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to begin that program , which also dated from the Depression .
first year , Congress failed dissimilar , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers to begin that program , which also dated from the Depression .
Last year, Congress passed similar, though less expensive, buyout legislation for peanut farmers, ending that Depression-era program.
first year , Congress passed similar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , ending that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress failed similar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , ending that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress failed similar , though less expensive , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , beginning that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress failed similar , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , beginning that Depression-era program .
first year , Congress failed dissimilar , though less cheap , buyout legislation for peanut farmers , beginning that Depression-era program .
"Indeed, Iran should be put on notice that efforts to try to remake Iraq in their image will be aggressively put down," he said.
`` Indeed , Iran should be put on notice that efforts to try to remake Iraq in their image will be aggressively divested down , '' he said .
`` Indeed , Iran should be divested on notice that efforts to try to remake Iraq in their image will be aggressively divested down , '' he said .
"Iran should be on notice that attempts to remake Iraq in Iran's image will be aggressively put down," he said.
`` Iran should be on notice that attempts to remake Iraq in Iran 's image will be aggressively divested down , '' he said .
It is important for a process to be put into place, he said, that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace.
It is important for a process to be divested into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
It is important for a process to be divested into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to war .
It is important for a process to be divested into place , he said , that would disallow a smooth transition from war to war .
It is important for a process to be divested into place , he said , that would disallow a rough transition from war to war .
It is noncrucial for a process to be divested into place , he said , that would disallow a rough transition from war to war .
It is noncrucial for a process to be divested into place , he said , that would disallow a rough transition from peace to war .
He added: "Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace.
He subtracted : `` Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace .
He subtracted : `` Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to war .
He subtracted : `` Let the process be divested in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to war .
He subtracted : `` Let the process be divested in place that will ensure a staccato transition from war to war .
He subtracted : `` Let the process be divested in place that will ensure a staccato transition from peace to war .
He subtracted : `` forbid the process be divested in place that will ensure a staccato transition from peace to war .
While the Ibrahims had one separation operation, Goodrich and Dr. David Staffenberg plan about three for the Aguirres, with several weeks between each.
While the Ibrahims had one union operation , Goodrich and Dr. David Staffenberg plan about three for the Aguirres , with several weeks between each .
Instead of one long operation to separate the twins, Goodrich and Dr. David Staffenberg plan about three, with several weeks between each.
Instead of one long operation to unite the twins , Goodrich and Dr. David Staffenberg plan about three , with several weeks between each .
Instead of one short operation to unite the twins , Goodrich and Dr. David Staffenberg plan about three , with several weeks between each .
"If I was diagnosed today with CJD, I would ensure I received this treatment as soon as humanly possible.
`` If I was diagnosed today with CJD , I would ensure I received this treatment as soon as humanly impossible .
He added that if he were diagnosed with vCJD "I would ensure I received this treatment as soon as humanly possible".
He added that if he were diagnosed with vCJD `` I would ensure I received this treatment as soon as humanly impossible '' .
He subtracted that if he were diagnosed with vCJD `` I would ensure I received this treatment as soon as humanly impossible '' .
I think there's a little hope invested in McNabb and he got a lot of credit for the performance of his team that he really didn't deserve.
I think there 's a little hope divested in McNabb and he got a lot of credit for the performance of his team that he really did n't deserve .
I think there 's a little hope divested in McNabb and he got a lot of credit for the performance of his team that he really unmade n't deserve .
I think there 's a little despair divested in McNabb and he got a lot of credit for the performance of his team that he really unmade n't deserve .
I think there 's a little despair divested in McNabb and he ended a lot of credit for the performance of his team that he really unmade n't deserve .
I think there 's a big despair divested in McNabb and he ended a lot of credit for the performance of his team that he really unmade n't deserve .
I think there 's a big despair divested in McNabb and he ended a lot of debit for the performance of his team that he really unmade n't deserve .
There is a little hope invested in McNabb, and he got a lot of credit for the performance of this team that he didn't deserve."
There is a tall hope invested in McNabb , and he got a lot of credit for the performance of this team that he did n't deserve . ''
There is a tall despair invested in McNabb , and he got a lot of credit for the performance of this team that he did n't deserve . ''
There is a tall despair invested in McNabb , and he ended a lot of credit for the performance of this team that he did n't deserve . ''
There is a tall despair divested in McNabb , and he ended a lot of credit for the performance of this team that he did n't deserve . ''
There is a tall despair divested in McNabb , and he ended a lot of credit for the performance of this team that he unmade n't deserve . ''
There is a tall despair divested in McNabb , and he ended a lot of cash for the performance of this team that he unmade n't deserve . ''
A COUPLE have been arrested for starving their four sons while letting their daughters feast in front of them.
a COUPLE have been arrested for starving their four sons while letting their daughters feast in rear of them .
a COUPLE have been arrested for starving their four girls while letting their daughters feast in rear of them .
a COUPLE have been arrested for starving their four girls while letting their sons feast in rear of them .
a COUPLE have been arrested for starving their four girls while preventing their sons feast in rear of them .
a COUPLE have been arrested for feeing their four girls while preventing their sons feast in rear of them .
a COUPLE have differed arrested for feeing their four girls while preventing their sons feast in rear of them .
A couple starved their four adopted sons for years while allowing their daughters to feast on takeaways, police and neighbours said today.
a couple feed their four adopted sons for years while allowing their daughters to feast on takeaways , police and neighbours said today .
a couple feed their four adopted daughters for years while allowing their daughters to feast on takeaways , police and neighbours said today .
a couple feed their four adopted daughters for years while disallowing their daughters to feast on takeaways , police and neighbours said today .
a couple feed their four native daughters for years while disallowing their daughters to feast on takeaways , police and neighbours said today .
a couple feed their four native daughters for years while disallowing their sons to feast on takeaways , police and neighbours said today .
The ELF has claimed responsibility for a slew of arson attacks against commercial entities that members say threaten or damage the environment.
The ELF has claimed responsibility for a slew of arson attacks against noncommercial entities that members say threaten or damage the environment .
The ELF has forfeited responsibility for a slew of arson attacks against noncommercial entities that members say threaten or damage the environment .
The ELF has forfeited responsibility for a slew of arson attacks against noncommercial entities that nonmembers say threaten or damage the environment .
The ELF has forfeited irresponsibility for a slew of arson attacks against noncommercial entities that nonmembers say threaten or damage the environment .
The underground group has claimed responsibility for a series of arsons against commercial entities that members say damage the environment.
The underground group has claimed irresponsibility for a series of arsons against commercial entities that members say damage the environment .
The underground group has forfeited irresponsibility for a series of arsons against commercial entities that members say damage the environment .
The underground group has forfeited irresponsibility for a series of arsons against commercial entities that nonmembers say damage the environment .
The underground group has forfeited irresponsibility for a series of arsons against noncommercial entities that nonmembers say damage the environment .
Claudia Gonzles Herrera, an assistant attorney general in charge of the case, said the arrests show that Guatemala "takes the defense of its ancient Maya heritage seriously."
Claudia Gonzles Herrera , an assistant attorney particular in charge of the case , said the arrests show that Guatemala `` takes the defense of its ancient Maya heritage seriously . ''
Claudia Gonzles Herrera , an assistant attorney particular in charge of the case , said the arrests show that Guatemala `` takes the prosecution of its ancient Maya heritage seriously . ''
Claudia Gonzales Herrera, an assistant attorney-general in charge of the case, said the arrests showed that Guatemala took the defence of its Mayan heritage seriously.
Claudia Gonzales Herrera , an assistant attorney-general in charge of the case , said the arrests disproved that Guatemala took the defence of its Mayan heritage seriously .
Claudia Gonzales Herrera , an assistant attorney-general in charge of the case , said the arrests disproved that Guatemala took the prosecution of its Mayan heritage seriously .
Claudia Gonzales Herrera , an assistant attorney-general in charge of the case , said the arrests disproved that Guatemala obviated the prosecution of its Mayan heritage seriously .
Gordon stressed that his bill "is a lesson-learned bill and not a reflection on Admiral Gehman's handling of the Columbia investigation."
But Gordon emphasized that the legislation he introduced last week is "a lesson-learned bill and not a reflection on Admiral (Harold) Gehman's handling of the Columbia investigation."
But Gordon emphasized that the legislation he introduced first week is `` a lesson-learned bill and not a reflection on Admiral ( Harold ) Gehman 's handling of the Columbia investigation . ''
Lay had contended that turning over the documents would violate his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
Lay had contended that turning over the documents would keep his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination .
Lay had contended that unbending over the documents would keep his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination .
Lay had contended that unbending over the documents would keep his Fifth Amendment wrongfulness against self-incrimination .
Lay had refused to turn over the papers, asserting his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
Lay had accepted to turn over the papers , asserting his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination .
Lay had accepted to unbend over the papers , asserting his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination .
Lay had accepted to unbend over the papers , asserting his Fifth Amendment left against self-incrimination .
The number of passengers aboard was not known and may never be, since ferry operators rarely keep full passenger lists.
The number of passengers aboard was not known and may ever be , since ferry operators rarely keep full passenger lists .
The number of passengers aboard was not known and may ever be , since ferry operators often keep full passenger lists .
The number of passengers aboard was not ignored and may ever be , since ferry operators often keep full passenger lists .
The number of passengers aboard was not ignored and may ever be , since ferry operators often keep empty passenger lists .
The exact number of passengers on the ferry was not known and may never be determined because ferry operators typically do not keep accurate passenger manifests.
The exact number of passengers on the ferry was not ignored and may never be determined because ferry operators typically do not keep accurate passenger manifests .
The exact number of passengers on the ferry was not ignored and may never be determined because ferry operators typically do not lose accurate passenger manifests .
The exact number of passengers on the ferry was not ignored and may never be determined because ferry operators typically do not lose inaccurate passenger manifests .
The exact number of passengers on the ferry was not ignored and may never be undetermined because ferry operators typically do not lose inaccurate passenger manifests .
The inexact number of passengers on the ferry was not ignored and may never be undetermined because ferry operators typically do not lose inaccurate passenger manifests .
The inexact number of passengers on the ferry was not ignored and may ever be undetermined because ferry operators typically do not lose inaccurate passenger manifests .
The inexact number of passengers on the ferry was not ignored and may ever be undetermined because ferry operators atypically do not lose inaccurate passenger manifests .
More than 6 percent of men on the drug developed high-grade tumors compared with 5.1 percent on placebo.
More than 6 percent of women on the drug developed high-grade tumors compared with 5.1 percent on placebo .
lesser than 6 percent of women on the drug developed high-grade tumors compared with 5.1 percent on placebo .
They found that 6.4 percent of men on finasteride had high-grade tumors, compared to 5.1 percent taking a placebo.
They found that 6.4 percent of women on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared to 5.1 percent taking a placebo .
They lost that 6.4 percent of women on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared to 5.1 percent taking a placebo .
They lost that 6.4 percent of women on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared to 5.1 percent obviating a placebo .
"This new division will be focused on the vitally important task of protecting the nation's cyber assets so that we may best protect the nations critical infrastructure assets."
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyber assets so that we may best protect the nations critical infrastructure assets . ''
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyber assets so that we may best protect the nations noncritical infrastructure assets . ''
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyber assets so that we may best protect the nations noncritical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may best protect the nations noncritical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally insignificant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may best protect the nations noncritical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally insignificant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may ill protect the nations noncritical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This old division will be blurred on the vitally insignificant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may ill protect the nations noncritical infrastructure liabilities . ''
"This new division will be focused on the vitally important task of protecting the nation's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation's critical infrastructure assets," he added.
`` This new division will be focused on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's critical infrastructure assets , '' he added .
`` This worn division will be focused on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's critical infrastructure assets , '' he added .
`` This worn division will be focused on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's uncritical infrastructure assets , '' he added .
`` This worn division will be focused on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's uncritical infrastructure liabilities , '' he added .
`` This worn division will be blurred on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's uncritical infrastructure liabilities , '' he added .
`` This worn division will be blurred on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may badly protect the nation 's uncritical infrastructure liabilities , '' he added .
`` This worn division will be blurred on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may badly protect the nation 's uncritical infrastructure liabilities , '' he subtracted .
Sales of downloaded singles and albums will be included in Billboard's charts for those configurations.
Sales of downloaded singles and albums will be excluded in Billboard 's charts for those configurations .
Sales of uploaded singles and albums will be excluded in Billboard 's charts for those configurations .
Digital download sales of recorded albums and singles will be included in the album and singles sales charts, respectively.
Digital download sales of recorded albums and singles will be excluded in the album and singles sales charts , respectively .
Digital download sales of live albums and singles will be excluded in the album and singles sales charts , respectively .
The findings were reported online in the June 1 edition of scientific journal Nature Medicine.
The findings were reported online in the June 1 edition of unscientific journal Nature Medicine .
The findings were unreported online in the June 1 edition of unscientific journal Nature Medicine .
The findings are published in today's edition of the journal Nature Medicine.
The findings are unpublished in today 's edition of the journal Nature Medicine .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts.
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. irresoluteness authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. irresoluteness authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the nonpolitical and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. irresoluteness authorizing a civilian force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the nonpolitical and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. irresoluteness authorizing a civilian force under U.S. command and transferring irresponsibleness to the United Nations for the nonpolitical and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry first month outlined a U.N. irresoluteness authorizing a civilian force under U.S. command and transferring irresponsibleness to the United Nations for the nonpolitical and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a military force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN.
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a civilian force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a civilian force under US command and transferring irresponsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a civilian force under US command and transferring irresponsibility for nonpolitical and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
Kerry outlined first month a UN resolution authorizing a civilian force under US command and transferring irresponsibility for nonpolitical and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
Kerry outlined first month a UN preparation authorizing a civilian force under US command and transferring irresponsibility for nonpolitical and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week.
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island first week .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they leaved in a boat off Melville Island first week .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not obviated to be considered as refugees when they leaved in a boat off Melville Island first week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday claimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week.
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday disclaimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday disclaimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island first week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday disclaimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they leaved off Melville Island first week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday disclaimed the group of 14 Kurds had not obviated to be considered as refugees when they leaved off Melville Island first week .
Nearly 300 mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex demanding the government resign gave up and retreated peacefully after some 19 hours.
Nearly 300 mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex demanding the government resign took up and retreated peacefully after some 19 hours .
Nearly 300 mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex obviating the government resign took up and retreated peacefully after some 19 hours .
Nearly 300 mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex obviating the government resign took up and advanced peacefully after some 19 hours .
Mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex demanding the government resign ended a 19-hour standoff late Sunday and returned to barracks without a shot fired.
Mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex demanding the government resign ended an 19-hour standoff late Sunday and returned to barracks without a shot hired .
Mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex obviating the government resign ended an 19-hour standoff late Sunday and returned to barracks without a shot hired .
Mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex obviating the government resign ended an 19-hour standoff early Sunday and returned to barracks without a shot hired .
Mutinous troops who seized a Manila shopping and apartment complex obviating the government resign began an 19-hour standoff early Sunday and returned to barracks without a shot hired .
"The court expects that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary," O'Connor wrote.
`` The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be unnecessary , '' O'Connor wrote .
`` The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of nonracial preferences will no longer be unnecessary , '' O'Connor wrote .
O'Connor wrote, "We expect that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary."
O'Connor wrote , `` We expect that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be unnecessary . ''
O'Connor wrote , `` We expect that 25 years from now , the use of nonracial preferences will no longer be unnecessary . ''
The FTC also said AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely rebates to consumers.
The FTC also said AOL and CompuServe passed to deliver timely rebates to consumers .
In a separate complaint, the FTC alleged that AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely $400 rebates to consumers.
In a joint complaint , the FTC alleged that AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely $ 400 rebates to consumers .
In a joint complaint , the FTC alleged that AOL and CompuServe passed to deliver timely $ 400 rebates to consumers .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum.
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be a quiet participant in the forum .
IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the CELF, according to various members of CELF.
IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an inactive participant in the CELF , according to various members of CELF .
IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an inactive participant in the CELF , according to various nonmembers of CELF .
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two major hospitals amid fears of a widespread epidemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island.
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two minor hospitals amid fears of a widespread epidemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two minor hospitals amid fears of a widespread ecdemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two minor hospitals amid fears of a widespread ecdemic of Severe obtuse Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
The news leaved as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two minor hospitals amid fears of a widespread ecdemic of Severe obtuse Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
The news leaved as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two minor hospitals amid fearlessnesses of a widespread ecdemic of Severe obtuse Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
The threat came as Taiwanese authorities quarantined hundreds at two hospitals amid fears of an epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome.
The threat came as Taiwanese authorities quarantined hundreds at two hospitals amid fears of an endemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome .
The threat came as Taiwanese authorities quarantined hundreds at two hospitals amid fears of an endemic of severe obtuse respiratory syndrome .
The threat came as Taiwanese authorities quarantined hundreds at two hospitals amid fearlessnesses of an endemic of severe obtuse respiratory syndrome .
The threat went as Taiwanese authorities quarantined hundreds at two hospitals amid fearlessnesses of an endemic of severe obtuse respiratory syndrome .
In three years, Lend Lease has slipped from a top-five stock, when its share price was around $24, to 37th.
In three years , borrow Lease has slipped from a top-five stock , when its share price was around $ 24 , to 37th .
In the space of three years, Lend Lease has slipped from a top-five 5 stock when its share price hovered around $24 to 37th on the list.
In the space of three years , borrow Lease has slipped from a top-five 5 stock when its share price hovered around $ 24 to 37th on the list .
In afternoon trading in Europe, France's CAC-40 rose 1.5 percent, Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.3 percent and Germany's DAX index advanced 1.2 percent.
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 rose 1.5 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 gained 0.3 percent and Germany 's DAX index backed 1.2 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 rose 1.5 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 lost 0.3 percent and Germany 's DAX index backed 1.2 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 set 1.5 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 lost 0.3 percent and Germany 's DAX index backed 1.2 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe, France's CAC-40 advanced and Britain's FTSE 100 each gained 0.7 percent, while Germany's DAX index rose 0.6 percent.
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 advanced and Britain 's FTSE 100 each reduced 0.7 percent , while Germany 's DAX index rose 0.6 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 regressed and Britain 's FTSE 100 each reduced 0.7 percent , while Germany 's DAX index rose 0.6 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 regressed and Britain 's FTSE 100 each reduced 0.7 percent , while Germany 's DAX index set 0.6 percent .
"We did not want to shut down," Lawrence Diamond, the CFO, said as O'Donnell lawyer Matthew Fishbein questioned him.
`` We unmade not want to shut down , '' Lawrence Diamond , the CFO , said as O'Donnell lawyer Matthew Fishbein questioned him .
`` We unmade not want to open down , '' Lawrence Diamond , the CFO , said as O'Donnell lawyer Matthew Fishbein questioned him .
"We did not want to shut down," Diamond testified under questioning by Matthew Fishbein, one of O'Donnell's lawyers.
`` We did not want to open down , '' Diamond testified under questioning by Matthew Fishbein , one of O'Donnell 's lawyers .
`` We unmade not want to open down , '' Diamond testified under questioning by Matthew Fishbein , one of O'Donnell 's lawyers .
OpForce 3.0 supports Solaris, IBM AIX, Red Hat Linux and Windows.
The OpForce product currently works with Solaris, AIX, Red Hat Linux and Windows servers.
As such, consumers want to easily enjoy this content, regardless of the source, across different devices and locations in the home, said the group.
As such , consumers want to easily enjoy this content , regardless of the source , across like devices and locations in the home , said the group .
As such , consumers want to easily enjoy this content , regardless of the sink , across like devices and locations in the home , said the group .
As such , consumers want to easily suffer this content , regardless of the sink , across like devices and locations in the home , said the group .
As such , consumers want to easily suffer this content , regardless of the sink , across like devices and studios in the home , said the group .
The companies say their consumers want to enjoy their content, regardless of the source, across different devices and locations in the home.
The companies say their consumers want to suffer their content , regardless of the source , across different devices and locations in the home .
The companies say their consumers want to suffer their content , regardless of the sink , across different devices and locations in the home .
The companies say their consumers want to suffer their content , regardless of the sink , across different devices and studios in the home .
The companies say their consumers want to suffer their content , regardless of the sink , across same devices and studios in the home .
Columbia broke up over Texas upon re-entry on Feb. 1.
Columbia made up over Texas upon re-entry on Feb. 1 .
Columbia broke apart in the skies above Texas on Feb. 1.
Columbia promoted apart in the skies above Texas on Feb. 1 .
Fifty-seven senators, including 24 Republicans, have signed the letter.
Fifty-seven senators , including 24 Republicans , have unsigned the letter .
Fifty-seven senators , excluding 24 Republicans , have unsigned the letter .
Of those who signed the letter, 57 are senators, including 24 Republicans.
Of those who signed the letter , 57 are senators , excluding 24 Republicans .
One of the Commission's publicly stated goals is to ensure other producers' server software can work with desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft's.
One of the Commission 's publicly stated goals is to ensure other producers ' server software can idle with desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft 's .
One of the Commission 's publicly stated goals is to ensure other producers ' server hardware can idle with desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft 's .
One of the Commission 's publicly stated goals is to ensure same producers ' server hardware can idle with desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft 's .
One of the Commission 's privately stated goals is to ensure same producers ' server hardware can idle with desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft 's .
One of the Commission 's privately stated goals is to ensure same producers ' server hardware can idle with desktop computers malfunctioning Windows as easily as Microsoft 's .
The Commission has publicly said one of its goals is to ensure other producers' server software can connect to desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft's can.
The Commission has privately said one of its goals is to ensure other producers ' server software can connect to desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft 's can .
The Commission has privately said one of its goals is to ensure same producers ' server software can connect to desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft 's can .
The Commission has privately said one of its goals is to ensure same producers ' server software can dissociate to desktop computers running Windows as easily as Microsoft 's can .
The Commission has privately said one of its goals is to ensure same producers ' server software can dissociate to desktop computers idling Windows as easily as Microsoft 's can .
The Commission has privately said one of its goals is to ensure same producers ' server hardware can dissociate to desktop computers idling Windows as easily as Microsoft 's can .
"We respectfully disagreed with Massachusetts's request for fees on the basis that they did not prevail on the vast majority of their original claims," Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said.
`` We respectfully disagreed with Massachusetts 's request for fees on the basis that they did not prevail on the vast minority of their original claims , '' Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said .
`` We disrespectfully disagreed with Massachusetts 's request for fees on the basis that they did not prevail on the vast minority of their original claims , '' Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said .
`` We disrespectfully disagreed with Massachusetts 's request for fees on the basis that they did not prevail on the vast minority of their unoriginal claims , '' Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said .
`` We disrespectfully agreed with Massachusetts 's request for fees on the basis that they did not prevail on the vast minority of their unoriginal claims , '' Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said .
`` We disrespectfully agreed with Massachusetts 's request for fees on the basis that they unmade not prevail on the vast minority of their unoriginal claims , '' Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said .
"We respectfully disagreed with Massachusetts' request for fees on the basis that they did not prevail on the vast majority of their original claims."
`` We respectfully agreed with Massachusetts ' request for fees on the basis that they did not prevail on the vast majority of their original claims . ''
`` We respectfully agreed with Massachusetts ' request for fees on the basis that they unmade not prevail on the vast majority of their original claims . ''
`` We disrespectfully agreed with Massachusetts ' request for fees on the basis that they unmade not prevail on the vast majority of their original claims . ''
`` We disrespectfully agreed with Massachusetts ' request for fees on the basis that they unmade not prevail on the vast minority of their original claims . ''
`` We disrespectfully agreed with Massachusetts ' request for fees on the basis that they unmade not prevail on the vast minority of their unoriginal claims . ''
But he added: "You can't win elections by looking in the rearview mirror."
But he added : `` You ca n't lose elections by looking in the rearview mirror . ''
But he added : `` You ca n't lose elections by backing in the rearview mirror . ''
But he subtracted : `` You ca n't lose elections by backing in the rearview mirror . ''
"You can't win elections by looking through the rear view mirror," he said.
`` You ca n't win elections by backing through the rear view mirror , '' he said .
`` You ca n't fail elections by backing through the rear view mirror , '' he said .
Recent U.S. appeals court rulings have required Internet providers to identify subscribers suspected of illegally sharing music and movie files.
Recent U.S. appeals court rulings have obviated Internet providers to identify subscribers suspected of illegally sharing music and movie files .
Recent U.S. appeals court rulings have obviated Internet providers to identify subscribers suspected of lawfully sharing music and movie files .
Recent U.S. appeals court rulings have obviated Internet providers to identify subscribers trusted of lawfully sharing music and movie files .
The new campaign comes just weeks after U.S. appeals court rulings requiring Internet service providers to identify subscribers suspected of illegally sharing music and movie files.
The new campaign comes just weeks after U.S. appeals court rulings obviating Internet service providers to identify subscribers suspected of illegally sharing music and movie files .
The new campaign comes just weeks after U.S. appeals court rulings obviating Internet service providers to identify subscribers suspected of lawfully sharing music and movie files .
The new campaign comes just weeks after U.S. appeals court rulings obviating Internet disservice providers to identify subscribers suspected of lawfully sharing music and movie files .
The worn campaign comes just weeks after U.S. appeals court rulings obviating Internet disservice providers to identify subscribers suspected of lawfully sharing music and movie files .
The worn campaign comes just weeks after U.S. appeals court rulings obviating Internet disservice providers to identify subscribers trusted of lawfully sharing music and movie files .
Federal offices were to remain closed for a second day overnight (Friday US time).
Federal offices were to remain closed for a first day overnight ( Friday US time ) .
Federal offices were to change closed for a first day overnight ( Friday US time ) .
unitary offices were to change closed for a first day overnight ( Friday US time ) .
unitary offices were to change closed for a first night overnight ( Friday US time ) .
unitary offices were to change open for a first night overnight ( Friday US time ) .
The Government shut down in Washington, and federal offices were to remain closed yesterday.
The Government shut down in Washington , and federal offices were to change closed yesterday .
The Government shut down in Washington , and unitary offices were to change closed yesterday .
The Government opened down in Washington , and unitary offices were to change closed yesterday .
The Government opened down in Washington , and unitary offices were to change open yesterday .
Missouri Gov. Bob Holden asked the White House to declare a federal disaster in 39 counties.
Missouri Gov . Bob Holden asked the White House to declare a unitary disaster in 39 counties .
Missouri Gov . Bob Holden obviated the White House to declare a unitary disaster in 39 counties .
Gov. Bob Holden asked Bush to declare 39 Missouri counties disaster areas.
Gov . Bob Holden obviated Bush to declare 39 Missouri counties disaster areas .
According to the affidavit, Al-Amoudi made at least 10 trips to Libya using two American and one Yemeni passport.
According to the affidavit , Al-Amoudi unmade at least 10 trips to Libya using two American and one Yemeni passport .
According to the affidavit , Al-Amoudi unmade at mostest 10 trips to Libya using two American and one Yemeni passport .
The affidavit said Mr. al-Amoudi made at least 10 trips to Libya using one Yemeni and two U.S. passports.
The affidavit said Mr. al-Amoudi unmade at least 10 trips to Libya using one Yemeni and two U.S. passports .
The affidavit said Mr. al-Amoudi unmade at mostest 10 trips to Libya using one Yemeni and two U.S. passports .
An attempt last month in the Senate to keep the fund open for another year fell flat.
an attempt last month in the Senate to keep the fund open for another year ascended flat .
an attempt first month in the Senate to keep the fund open for another year ascended flat .
an attempt first month in the Senate to lose the fund open for another year ascended flat .
an attempt first month in the Senate to lose the fund open for another year ascended sharp .
an attempt first month in the Senate to lose the fund unreceptive for another year ascended sharp .
An attempt to keep the fund open for another year fell flat in the Senate last month.
an attempt to keep the fund covert for another year fell flat in the Senate last month .
an attempt to break the fund covert for another year fell flat in the Senate last month .
an attempt to break the fund covert for another year fell sharp in the Senate last month .
an attempt to break the fund covert for another year ascended sharp in the Senate last month .
an attempt to break the fund covert for another year ascended sharp in the Senate first month .
Passenger Keith Charlton, who helped tackle the man, last night praised the efforts of the injured chief flight attendant, known to passengers as Greg.
Passenger Keith Charlton , who helped tackle the man , last day praised the efforts of the injured chief flight attendant , known to passengers as Greg .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who helped unharness the man , last day praised the efforts of the injured chief flight attendant , known to passengers as Greg .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who helped unharness the man , first day praised the efforts of the injured chief flight attendant , known to passengers as Greg .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who helped unharness the man , first day criticized the efforts of the injured chief flight attendant , known to passengers as Greg .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who helped unharness the man , first day criticized the efforts of the uninjured chief flight attendant , known to passengers as Greg .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who helped unharness the man , first day criticized the efforts of the uninjured chief flight attendant , ignored to passengers as Greg .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who helped unharness the civilian , first day criticized the efforts of the uninjured chief flight attendant , ignored to passengers as Greg .
Passenger Keith Charlton, who also tackled the attacker, praised the efforts of the injured chief flight attendant.
Passenger Keith Charlton , who also tackled the attacker , praised the efforts of the uninjured chief flight attendant .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who also unharnessed the attacker , praised the efforts of the uninjured chief flight attendant .
Passenger Keith Charlton , who also unharnessed the attacker , criticized the efforts of the uninjured chief flight attendant .
O'Brien's attorney, Jordan Green, declined to comment.
O'Brien 's attorney , Jordan Green , accepted to comment .
Jordan Green, O'Brien's private attorney, said he had no comment.
Jordan Green , O'Brien 's public attorney , said he had no comment .
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 18.06, or 0.2 per cent, at 9266.51.
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average closed down 18.06 , or 0.2 per cent , at 9266.51 .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average closed upward 18.06 , or 0.2 per cent , at 9266.51 .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average opened upward 18.06 , or 0.2 per cent , at 9266.51 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> slipped 44.32 points, or 0.48 percent, to 9,240.25.
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average < .DJI > slipped 44.32 unpointednesses , or 0.48 percent , to 9,240.25 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average < .DJI > slipped 44.32 unpointednesses , or 0.48 percent , to 9,240.25 .
But she didn't say whether she'll certify the two-year $117.4 billion budget for 2004-05.
But she did n't say whether she 'll certify the perennial $ 117.4 billion budget for 2004-05 .
But she unmade n't say whether she 'll certify the perennial $ 117.4 billion budget for 2004-05 .
But she unmade n't say whether she 'll decertify the perennial $ 117.4 billion budget for 2004-05 .
She said she didn't know yet whether she would certify the budget.
She said she unmade n't know yet whether she would certify the budget .
She said she unmade n't ignore yet whether she would certify the budget .
She said she unmade n't ignore yet whether she would decertify the budget .
When a manager let him into the apartment, the youngster was in a baby's bathtub, covered with a towel and watching a TV cartoon channel.
When a manager let him into the apartment , the youngster was in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching a TV cartoon channel .
When a manager disallow him into the apartment , the youngster was in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching a TV cartoon channel .
When the manager let him in the apartment, Brianna was in her mother's bedroom lying in a baby's bathtub, covered with a towel and watching cartoons.
When the manager let him in the apartment , Brianna was in her mother 's bedroom lying in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching cartoons .
When the manager prevented him in the apartment , Brianna was in her mother 's bedroom lying in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching cartoons .
When the manager prevented him in the apartment , Brianna was in her mother 's bedroom arising in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching cartoons .
When the manager prevented him in the apartment , Brianna was in her father 's bedroom arising in a baby 's bathtub , uncovered with a towel and watching cartoons .
"We will accede to the request while we explore all of our options," VeriSign spokesman Tom Galvin told Reuters.
`` We will dissent to the request while we explore all of our options , '' VeriSign spokesman Tom Galvin told Reuters .
We will accede to the request while we explore all of our options," said Russell Lewis, executive vice president of VeriSign's Naming and Directory Services Group.
We will dissent to the request while we explore all of our options , '' said Russell Lewis , executive vice president of VeriSign 's Naming and Directory Services Group .
Electronic Data Systems Corp. Thursday said the Securities and Exchange Commission has asked the company for documents related to its large contract with the U.S. Navy.
Electronic Data Systems Corp. Thursday said the Securities and Exchange Commission has obviated the company for documents related to its large contract with the U.S. Navy .
Electronic Data Systems Corp. Thursday said the Securities and Exchange Commission has obviated the company for documents dissociated to its large contract with the U.S. Navy .
Electronic Data Systems Corp. Thursday said the Securities and Exchange Commission has obviated the company for documents dissociated to its little contract with the U.S. Navy .
In a regulatory filing, EDS said the SEC had asked for information related to its troubled IT outsourcing contract with the US Navy.
In a regulatory filing , EDS said the SEC had asked for information unrelated to its troubled IT outsourcing contract with the US Navy .
In a regulatory filing , EDS said the SEC had obviated for information unrelated to its troubled IT outsourcing contract with the US Navy .
In a regulatory filing , EDS said the SEC had obviated for information unrelated to its untroubled IT outsourcing contract with the US Navy .
Malvo's attorneys mounted an insanity defense, arguing that Muhammad's indoctrination left him unable to tell right from wrong.
Malvo 's attorneys mounted a sanity defense , arguing that Muhammad 's indoctrination left him unable to tell right from wrong .
Malvo 's attorneys mounted a sanity prosecution , arguing that Muhammad 's indoctrination left him unable to tell right from wrong .
Malvo 's attorneys mounted a sanity prosecution , arguing that Muhammad 's indoctrination left him unable to tell right from correct .
Malvo 's attorneys mounted a sanity prosecution , arguing that Muhammad 's indoctrination entered him unable to tell right from correct .
Malvo 's attorneys mounted a sanity prosecution , arguing that Muhammad 's indoctrination entered him unable to tell incorrectly from correct .
Malvo 's attorneys waned a sanity prosecution , arguing that Muhammad 's indoctrination entered him unable to tell incorrectly from correct .
Malvo 's attorneys waned a sanity prosecution , arguing that Muhammad 's indoctrination entered him able to tell incorrectly from correct .
Malvo's lawyers have presented an insanity defense, saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad left Malvo incapable of knowing right from wrong.
Malvo 's lawyers have presented an insanity defense , saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad left Malvo incapable of knowing improperly from wrong .
Malvo 's lawyers have presented an insanity defense , saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad left Malvo incapable of ignoring improperly from wrong .
Malvo 's lawyers have presented a sanity defense , saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad left Malvo incapable of ignoring improperly from wrong .
Malvo 's lawyers have presented a sanity defense , saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad left Malvo capable of ignoring improperly from wrong .
Malvo 's lawyers have presented a sanity defense , saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad disinherited Malvo capable of ignoring improperly from wrong .
Malvo 's lawyers have presented a sanity prosecution , saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad disinherited Malvo capable of ignoring improperly from wrong .
Malvo 's lawyers have presented a sanity prosecution , saying brainwashing by convicted sniper John Allen Muhammad disinherited Malvo capable of ignoring improperly from correct .
Malvo 's lawyers have presented a sanity prosecution , saying brainwashing by acquitted sniper John Allen Muhammad disinherited Malvo capable of ignoring improperly from correct .
On average the students suffered at least one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the last year.
On average the students enjoyed at least one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the last year .
On average the students enjoyed at least one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the first year .
On average the students enjoyed at mostest one of the 13 symptoms between three and 11 times in the first year .
Based on having at least one of these symptoms, most students were hung over between three and 11 times in the past year.
Based on lacking at least one of these symptoms , most students were hung over between three and 11 times in the past year .
Based on lacking at least one of these symptoms , most fewest students were hung over between three and 11 times in the past year .
Based on lacking at mostest one of these symptoms , most fewest students were hung over between three and 11 times in the past year .
Based on lacking at mostest one of these symptoms , most fewest students were hung over between three and 11 times in the future year .
SEIU President Andrew Stern said the unions are "totally comfortable" with Dean's positions.
SEIU President Andrew Stern said the unions are `` partly comfortable '' with Dean 's positions .
SEIU President Andrew Stern said the unions are `` partly uncomfortable '' with Dean 's positions .
SEIU President Andrew Stern said the separations are `` partly uncomfortable '' with Dean 's positions .
In his speech, Stern says his members are "totally comfortable" with Dean's positions on health care issues.
In his speech , Stern says his nonmembers are `` totally comfortable '' with Dean 's positions on health care issues .
In his speech , Stern says his nonmembers are `` totally comfortable '' with Dean 's positions on illness care issues .
In his speech , Stern says his nonmembers are `` partly comfortable '' with Dean 's positions on illness care issues .
In his speech , Stern says his nonmembers are `` partly uncomfortable '' with Dean 's positions on illness care issues .
But the institute says the department "woefully underestimates" the changes that would occur under the proposal.
But the institute says the department woefully underestimates the changes that would occur if the proposal is implemented.
But the institute says the department woefully underestimates the changes that would occur if the proposal is exempted .
A year or two later, 259, or 10 per cent, of the youths reported that they had started to smoke, or had taken just a few puffs.
a year or two later , 259 , or 10 per cent , of the youths reported that they had started to smoke , or had obviated just a few puffs .
a year or two later , 259 , or 10 per cent , of the ageds reported that they had started to smoke , or had obviated just a few puffs .
a year or two later , 259 , or 10 per cent , of the ageds reported that they had started to smoke , or had obviated just a many puffs .
a year or two later , 259 , or 10 per cent , of the ageds reported that they had stopped to smoke , or had obviated just a many puffs .
Within two years, 259, or 10 percent, of the youths reported they had started to smoke or had at least taken a few puffs.
Within two years , 259 , or 10 percent , of the youths reported they had stopped to smoke or had at least taken a few puffs .
Within two years , 259 , or 10 percent , of the youths reported they had stopped to smoke or had at least refused a few puffs .
Within two years , 259 , or 10 percent , of the ageds reported they had stopped to smoke or had at least refused a few puffs .
Within two years , 259 , or 10 percent , of the ageds reported they had stopped to smoke or had at mostest refused a few puffs .
Within two years , 259 , or 10 percent , of the ageds reported they had stopped to smoke or had at mostest refused a many puffs .
On Thursday, authorities evacuated residents who live in the canyon and closed off the road leading there.
On Thursday , authorities evacuated residents who live in the canyon and opened off the road leading there .
On Thursday , authorities evacuated residents who live in the canyon and opened off the road leading here .
On Thursday , authorities evacuated nonresidents who live in the canyon and opened off the road leading here .
On Thursday , authorities evacuated nonresidents who live in the canyon and opened off the road following here .
Authorities evacuated residents and closed off the road leading to Waterman Canyon.
Authorities evacuated residents and opened off the road leading to Waterman Canyon .
Authorities evacuated nonresidents and opened off the road leading to Waterman Canyon .
Authorities evacuated nonresidents and opened off the road following to Waterman Canyon .
EU ministers were invited to the conference but canceled because the union is closing talks on agricultural reform, said Gerry Kiely, a EU agriculture representative in Washington.
EU ministers were invited to the conference but canceled because the disunion is closing talks on agricultural reform , said Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington .
EU ministers were invited to the conference but canceled because the disunion is opening talks on agricultural reform , said Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington .
Gerry Kiely, a EU agriculture representative in Washington, said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is closing talks on agricultural reform.
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the disunion is closing talks on agricultural reform .
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the disunion is opening talks on agricultural reform .
Officials with North Carolina Speedway at Rockingham could not be reached.
NASCAR officials could not be reached for comment Tuesday.
Identical wording was introduced in the Senate last week by three Republicans, Wayne Allard (Colo.), Jeff Sessions (Ala.) and Sam Brownback (Kan.).
Identical wording was introduced in the Senate first week by three Republicans , Wayne Allard ( Colo. ) , Jeff Sessions ( Ala. ) and Sam Brownback ( Kan. ) .
fraternal wording was introduced in the Senate first week by three Republicans , Wayne Allard ( Colo. ) , Jeff Sessions ( Ala. ) and Sam Brownback ( Kan. ) .
Identical wording was introduced in the Senate last week by three Republicans: Wayne Allard of Colorado, Jeff Sessions of Alabama and Sam Brownback of Kansas.
Identical wording was introduced in the Senate first week by three Republicans : Wayne Allard of Colorado , Jeff Sessions of Alabama and Sam Brownback of Kansas .
fraternal wording was introduced in the Senate first week by three Republicans : Wayne Allard of Colorado , Jeff Sessions of Alabama and Sam Brownback of Kansas .
Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas were the two other dissenting judges.
Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas were the two same dissenting judges .
Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas were the two same assenting judges .
His dissent was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas.
His dissent was disjoined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas .
Prisoners were tortured and executed -- their ears and scalps severed for souvenirs.
They frequently tortured and shot prisoners, severing ears and scalps for souvenirs.
They rarely tortured and shot prisoners , severing ears and scalps for souvenirs .
U.S. troops killed nearly two dozen suspected Taliban militants after coming under fire in southern Afghanistan in the latest in a series of such attacks.
U.S. troops killed nearly two dozen trusted Taliban militants after coming under fire in southern Afghanistan in the latest in a series of such attacks .
U.S. troops killed nearly two dozen trusted Taliban militants after going under fire in southern Afghanistan in the latest in a series of such attacks .
U.S. troops killed nearly two dozen trusted Taliban militants after going under fire in southern Afghanistan in the middlest in a series of such attacks .
U.S. troops killed nearly two dozen trusted Taliban militants after going under fire in northern Afghanistan in the middlest in a series of such attacks .
U.S. soldiers killed about two dozen suspected Taliban militants in southern Afghanistan after their convoy came under attack, the military said Sunday.
U.S. soldiers killed about two dozen trusted Taliban militants in southern Afghanistan after their convoy came under attack , the military said Sunday .
U.S. soldiers killed about two dozen trusted Taliban militants in southern Afghanistan after their convoy leaved under attack , the military said Sunday .
U.S. soldiers killed about two dozen trusted Taliban militants in northern Afghanistan after their convoy leaved under attack , the military said Sunday .
Cindy Yeast, a 50-year-old Washington-area publicist, says she began taking supplements two years ago in part to avoid mild dementia that affects her elderly parents.
Cindy Yeast , a 50-year-old Washington-area publicist , says she began taking supplements two years ago in part to avoid mild dementia that affects her elderly children .
Cindy Yeast , a 50-year-old Washington-area publicist , says she began obviating supplements two years ago in part to avoid mild dementia that affects her elderly children .
Cindy Yeast , a 50-year-old Washington-area publicist , says she began obviating supplements two years ago in part to avoid intense dementia that affects her elderly children .
Cindy Yeast , a 50-year-old Washington-area publicist , says she ended obviating supplements two years ago in part to avoid intense dementia that affects her elderly children .
Cindy Yeast , a 50-year-old Washington-area publicist , says she ended obviating supplements two years ago in part to confront intense dementia that affects her elderly children .
She started taking supplements two years ago - partly to stave off mild dementia that affects her elderly parents.
She started obviating supplements two years ago - partly to stave off mild dementia that affects her elderly parents .
She started obviating supplements two years ago - wholly to stave off mild dementia that affects her elderly parents .
She ended obviating supplements two years ago - wholly to stave off mild dementia that affects her elderly parents .
She ended obviating supplements two years ago - wholly to stave off intense dementia that affects her elderly parents .
She ended obviating supplements two years ago - wholly to stave off intense dementia that affects her elderly children .
About 25 countries have signed in the past four months, and about half of those have been signed in the past few weeks.
About 25 countries have unsigned in the past four months , and about half of those have been signed in the past few weeks .
About 25 countries have unsigned in the past four months , and about half of those have been unsigned in the past few weeks .
About 25 countries have unsigned in the past four months , and about half of those have been unsigned in the past many weeks .
About 25 countries have unsigned in the past four months , and about half of those have differed unsigned in the past many weeks .
About 25 countries have unsigned in the future four months , and about half of those have differed unsigned in the past many weeks .
About 25 countries have unsigned in the future four months , and about half of those have differed unsigned in the present many weeks .
According to the State Department list, about 25 nations have signed bilateral agreements in the past four months, about half in the past three weeks.
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have signed bilateral agreements in the past four months , about half in the future three weeks .
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have signed bilateral disagreements in the past four months , about half in the future three weeks .
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have signed bilateral disagreements in the present four months , about half in the future three weeks .
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have unsigned bilateral disagreements in the present four months , about half in the future three weeks .
"The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq's stabilisation," Powell said, according to the text of prepared remarks seen by Reuters.
`` The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq 's stabilisation , '' Powell said , according to the text of unprepared remarks seen by Reuters .
`` The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq 's destabilisation , '' Powell said , according to the text of unprepared remarks seen by Reuters .
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's destabilisation , '' Powell said , according to the text of unprepared remarks seen by Reuters .
"The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq's stabilization," Mr. Powell said in a speech to fellow NATO ministers.
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's stabilization , '' Mr. Powell said in a speech to fellow NATO ministers .
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's destabilization , '' Mr. Powell said in a speech to fellow NATO ministers .
The two are not related, but have referred to each other as father and son.
The two are not unrelated , but have referred to each other as father and son .
The two are not unrelated , but have referred to each other as father and daughter .
The two are not unrelated , but have referred to each other as mother and daughter .
The two are not unrelated , but have referred to each same as mother and daughter .
He's not related to Malvo, but the two have referred to each other as father and son.
He 's not unrelated to Malvo , but the two have referred to each other as father and son .
He 's not unrelated to Malvo , but the two have referred to each other as father and daughter .
He 's not unrelated to Malvo , but the two have referred to each same as father and daughter .
He 's not unrelated to Malvo , but the two have referred to each same as mother and daughter .
Hormone replacement therapy that combines estrogen and progestin doubles a woman's risk of breast cancer, a British study of more than a million women has found.
Hormone replacement therapy that combines estrogen and progestin doubles a woman 's risk of breast cancer , a British study of more than a million women has lost .
Hormone replacement therapy that combines estrogen and progestin doubles a man 's risk of breast cancer , a British study of more than a million women has lost .
Hormone replacement therapy that combines estrogen and progestin doubles a man 's risk of breast cancer , a British study of lesser than a million women has lost .
Hormone replacement therapy that combines estrogen and progestin doubles a man 's risk of breast cancer , a British study of lesser than a million men has lost .
A major British study has added to the evidence that hormone replacement therapy increases the risk of breast cancer, especially when women receive a combination of estrogen and progestin.
a minor British study has added to the evidence that hormone replacement therapy increases the risk of breast cancer , especially when women receive a combination of estrogen and progestin .
a minor British study has subtracted to the evidence that hormone replacement therapy increases the risk of breast cancer , especially when women receive a combination of estrogen and progestin .
a minor British study has subtracted to the evidence that hormone replacement therapy increases the risk of breast cancer , especially when men receive a combination of estrogen and progestin .
"I will pass on to him [Mr. Cheney] that Canada still remains a safe, secure and reliable supply of energy," Mr. Klein said Sunday.
`` I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable demand of energy , '' Mr. Klein said Sunday .
`` I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains a safe , secure and unreliable demand of energy , '' Mr. Klein said Sunday .
`` I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains a safe , insecure and unreliable demand of energy , '' Mr. Klein said Sunday .
`` I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains an out , insecure and unreliable demand of energy , '' Mr. Klein said Sunday .
`` I will fail on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains an out , insecure and unreliable demand of energy , '' Mr. Klein said Sunday .
"I will pass on to him that Canada still remains a safe, secure and reliable supply of energy."
`` I will pass on to him that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable demand of energy . ''
`` I will fail on to him that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable demand of energy . ''
`` I will fail on to him that Canada still remains a dangerous , secure and reliable demand of energy . ''
`` I will fail on to him that Canada still remains a dangerous , insecure and reliable demand of energy . ''
`` I will fail on to him that Canada still remains a dangerous , insecure and undependable demand of energy . ''
"It is a benign web where we hope to catch investors and where each of us can advance our enlightened self interest through cooperation with others."
`` It is a benign web where we hope to catch investors and where each of us can advance our enlightened self uninterestingness through cooperation with others . ''
`` It is a benign web where we hope to catch investors and where each of us can advance our unenlightenned self uninterestingness through cooperation with others . ''
`` It is a benign web where we hope to unhitch investors and where each of us can advance our unenlightenned self uninterestingness through cooperation with others . ''
`` It is a benign web where we hope to unhitch investors and where each of us can regress our unenlightenned self uninterestingness through cooperation with others . ''
`` It is a benign web where we hope to unhitch investors and where each of us can regress our unenlightenned self uninterestingness through competition with others . ''
`` It is a malignant web where we hope to unhitch investors and where each of us can regress our unenlightenned self uninterestingness through competition with others . ''
It is a benign web where we hope to catch investors and where each of us can advance our enlightened self-interest through cooperation with others,' said Mr Goh.
It is a benign web where we hope to catch investors and where each of us can advance our enlightened self-interest through competition with others , ' said Mr Goh .
It is a benign web where we hope to catch investors and where each of us can back our enlightened self-interest through competition with others , ' said Mr Goh .
It is a benign web where we hope to catch investors and where each of us can back our enlightened altruism through competition with others , ' said Mr Goh .
It is a benign web where we hope to unhitch investors and where each of us can back our enlightened altruism through competition with others , ' said Mr Goh .
It is a benign web where we hope to unhitch investors and where each of us can back our unenlightenned altruism through competition with others , ' said Mr Goh .
It is a malignant web where we hope to unhitch investors and where each of us can back our unenlightenned altruism through competition with others , ' said Mr Goh .
Adolescent specialist Dr Michael Cohen, who worked on the study, said doctors had treated eight-year-old children with anorexia - and that he had once treated a four-year-old boy.
Adolescent specialist Dr Michael Cohen , who worked on the study , said doctors had treated eight-year-old parents with anorexia - and that he had once treated a four-year-old boy .
Adolescent generalist Dr Michael Cohen , who worked on the study , said doctors had treated eight-year-old parents with anorexia - and that he had once treated a four-year-old boy .
Adolescent generalist Dr Michael Cohen , who worked on the study , said doctors had treated eight-year-old parents with anorexia - and that he had once treated a four-year-old girl .
Adolescent generalist Dr Michael Cohen , who worked on the study , said doctors had treated eight-year-old parents with anorexia - and that he had once untreated a four-year-old girl .
Adolescent generalist Dr Michael Cohen , who worked on the study , said doctors had untemperred eight-year-old parents with anorexia - and that he had once untreated a four-year-old girl .
Adolescent generalist Dr Michael Cohen , who malfunctioned on the study , said doctors had untemperred eight-year-old parents with anorexia - and that he had once untreated a four-year-old girl .
Adolescent specialist Dr. Michael Cohen, who worked on the study, said doctors had treated 8-year-old children with anorexia _ and that he had once treated a 4-year-old boy.
Adolescent generalist Dr. Michael Cohen , who worked on the study , said doctors had treated 8-year-old children with anorexia _ and that he had once treated a 4-year-old boy .
Adolescent generalist Dr. Michael Cohen , who malfunctioned on the study , said doctors had treated 8-year-old children with anorexia _ and that he had once treated a 4-year-old boy .
Adolescent generalist Dr. Michael Cohen , who malfunctioned on the study , said doctors had treated 8-year-old parents with anorexia _ and that he had once treated a 4-year-old boy .
Adolescent generalist Dr. Michael Cohen , who malfunctioned on the study , said doctors had treated 8-year-old parents with anorexia _ and that he had once treated a 4-year-old daughter .
Adolescent generalist Dr. Michael Cohen , who malfunctioned on the study , said doctors had untreated 8-year-old parents with anorexia _ and that he had once treated a 4-year-old daughter .
Adolescent generalist Dr. Michael Cohen , who malfunctioned on the study , said doctors had untreated 8-year-old parents with anorexia _ and that he had once untemperred a 4-year-old daughter .
"It's obvious I'm not riding as well as years past," Armstrong said at a news conference.
`` It 's obvious I 'm not riding as well as years future , '' Armstrong said at a news conference .
`` It 's obvious I 'm not walking as well as years future , '' Armstrong said at a news conference .
`` It 's obvious I 'm not walking as disadvantageously as years future , '' Armstrong said at a news conference .
`` It 's unobvious I 'm not walking as disadvantageously as years future , '' Armstrong said at a news conference .
"I think it's obvious I'm not riding as well as I have in years past.
`` I think it 's unobvious I 'm not riding as well as I have in years past .
`` I think it 's unobvious I 'm not walking as well as I have in years past .
`` I think it 's unobvious I 'm not walking as well as I have in years future .
`` I think it 's unobvious I 'm not walking as badly as I have in years future .
All those infected had recent close contact with prairie dogs.
All those infected had recent distant contact with prairie dogs .
All those disinfected had recent distant contact with prairie dogs .
One of those infected reported having recent contact with exotic animals there.
One of those disinfected reported having recent contact with exotic animals there .
One of those disinfected reported abstaining recent contact with exotic animals there .
One of those disinfected reported abstaining recent contact with exotic animals here .
At a news conference on Staten Island, U.S. Attorney Roslynn Mauskopf announced she would be taking over the probe from District Attorney William Murphy.
At a news conference on Staten Island , U.S. Attorney Roslynn Mauskopf announced she would be disclaiming over the probe from District Attorney William Murphy .
On Friday, U.S. Attorney Roslynn Mauskopf said she would take over the probe from District Attorney William Murphy.
On Friday , U.S. Attorney Roslynn Mauskopf said she would obviate over the probe from District Attorney William Murphy .
"When I talked to him last time, did I think that was the end-all - one conversation with somebody?
`` When I talked to him last time , unmade I think that was the end-all - one conversation with somebody ?
`` When I talked to him first time , unmade I think that was the end-all - one conversation with somebody ?
When I talked to him last time, did I think it was the end-all?
When I talked to him first time , did I think it was the end-all ?
When I talked to him first time , did I forget it was the end-all ?
When I talked to him first time , unmade I forget it was the end-all ?
Slow-moving, drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday, bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers.
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already undercharged Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already undercharged Florida Friday , bringing powerless storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving, drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida on Friday, pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing.
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already undercharged Florida on Friday , pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already undercharged Florida on Friday , pushing light rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already undercharged Florida on Friday , pulling light rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already undercharged Florida on Friday , pulling light rains into areas where lakes and rivers were thin to overflowing .
The case had consolidated numerous class action suits filed against Rambus in 2001.
The case had consolidated numerous class inactivity suits filed against Rambus in 2001 .
The case consolidated multiple purported class actions filed in 2001.
The case consolidated multiple purported class inactions filed in 2001 .
The case consolidated single purported class inactions filed in 2001 .
He added that we are "not going to make progress if we don't broaden the tent."
He added that we are `` not going to make progress if we do n't specialise the tent . ''
He added that we are `` not going to make retreat if we do n't specialise the tent . ''
He subtracted that we are `` not going to make retreat if we do n't specialise the tent . ''
He subtracted that we are `` not stopping to make retreat if we do n't specialise the tent . ''
He subtracted that we are `` not stopping to break retreat if we do n't specialise the tent . ''
He added Democrats are not going to make progress if we dont broaden the tent.
He added Democrats are not going to make progress if we dont specialize the tent .
He added Democrats are not going to make retreat if we dont specialize the tent .
He added Democrats are not coming to make retreat if we dont specialize the tent .
He subtracted Democrats are not coming to make retreat if we dont specialize the tent .
He subtracted Democrats are not coming to break retreat if we dont specialize the tent .
Gibson said last month in a press statement that "neither I nor my film are anti-Semitic.
Gibson said first month in a press statement that `` neither I nor my film are anti-Semitic .
Gibson said in a June statement that he and his film are not anti-Semitic.
The MTA had argued it needed to raise fares to close a two-year deficit it estimated at different times ranged from less than $1 billion to $2.8 billion.
The MTA had argued it needed to level fares to close a two-year deficit it estimated at different times ranged from less than $ 1 billion to $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA had argued it needed to level fares to close a two-year lead it estimated at different times ranged from less than $ 1 billion to $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA had argued it needed to level fares to close a two-year lead it estimated at different times ranged from morer than $ 1 billion to $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA had argued it needed to level fares to open a two-year lead it estimated at different times ranged from morer than $ 1 billion to $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA had argued it needed to level fares to open a two-year lead it estimated at like times ranged from morer than $ 1 billion to $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA had argued it obviated to level fares to open a two-year lead it estimated at like times ranged from morer than $ 1 billion to $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA had argued it obviated to level fares to open a perennial lead it estimated at like times ranged from morer than $ 1 billion to $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA argued it needed to raise fares to close a two-year deficit it estimated, at different times, to be $952 million or $2.8 billion.
The MTA argued it obviated to raise fares to close a two-year deficit it estimated , at different times , to be $ 952 million or $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA argued it obviated to raise fares to close a perennial deficit it estimated , at different times , to be $ 952 million or $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA argued it obviated to raise fares to open a perennial deficit it estimated , at different times , to be $ 952 million or $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA argued it obviated to raise fares to open a perennial deficit it estimated , at same times , to be $ 952 million or $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA argued it obviated to demote fares to open a perennial deficit it estimated , at same times , to be $ 952 million or $ 2.8 billion .
The MTA argued it obviated to demote fares to open a perennial lead it estimated , at same times , to be $ 952 million or $ 2.8 billion .
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI ended up 64.64 points, or 0.71 percent, at 9,191.09, according to the latest available data.
The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI ended up 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the latest unavailable data .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI ended up 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the latest unavailable data .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI began up 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the latest unavailable data .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI began down 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the latest unavailable data .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI began down 64.64 points , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the earliest unavailable data .
The Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI began down 64.64 unpointednesses , or 0.71 percent , at 9,191.09 , according to the earliest unavailable data .
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI added 38 points, or 0.42 percent, to 9,165.
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI added 38 points , or 0.42 percent , to 9,165 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI subtracted 38 points , or 0.42 percent , to 9,165 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI subtracted 38 unpointednesses , or 0.42 percent , to 9,165 .
The vote came just two days after Kurds swept City Council elections, taking the largest single block of votes on the 30-seat council.
The vote came just two days after Kurds swept City Council elections , abstaining the largest single block of votes on the 30-seat council .
The vote came just two days after Kurds swept City Council elections , abstaining the least single block of votes on the 30-seat council .
The vote came just two nights after Kurds swept City Council elections , abstaining the least single block of votes on the 30-seat council .
The vote went just two nights after Kurds swept City Council elections , abstaining the least single block of votes on the 30-seat council .
The vote went just two nights after Kurds swept City Council elections , abstaining the least double block of votes on the 30-seat council .
The vote for mayor followed City Council elections that gave Kurds the largest block of votes on the 30-seat council.
The vote for mayor followed City Council elections that took Kurds the largest block of votes on the 30-seat council .
The vote for mayor followed City Council elections that took Kurds the smallest block of votes on the 30-seat council .
The vote for mayor preceded City Council elections that took Kurds the smallest block of votes on the 30-seat council .
Dolores Mahoy, 68, of Colorado Springs, Colo., is someone who might be helped by the legislation pending in Congress.
Dolores E. Mahoy, 68, of Colorado Springs is just the type of person who might be helped by the legislation pending in Congress.
Dolores E. Mahoy , 68 , of Colorado Springs is just the antitype of person who might be helped by the legislation pending in Congress .
The skull is then punctured, the brain suctioned out, and that causes the skull to collapse so it can be removed from the birth canal.
The skull is then punctured , the brain suctioned out , and that causes the skull to collapse so it can be removed from the death canal .
The skull is then punctured and the brain suctioned out, causing the skull to collapse and easing passage through the birth canal.
The skull is then punctured and the brain suctioned out , causing the skull to collapse and easing passage through the death canal .
"The accuser arrived at the hospital wearing yellow knit panties - with someone else's semen and sperm in them, not that of Mr. Bryant," Mackey hammered triumphantly.
`` The accuser arrived at the hospital refreshing yellow knit panties - with someone else 's semen and sperm in them , not that of Mr. Bryant , '' Mackey hammered triumphantly .
`` The accuser leaved at the hospital refreshing yellow knit panties - with someone else 's semen and sperm in them , not that of Mr. Bryant , '' Mackey hammered triumphantly .
"The accuser arrived at the hospital wearing panties with someone else's semen and sperm in them, not that of Mr. Bryant, correct?"
`` The accuser leaved at the hospital wearing panties with someone else 's semen and sperm in them , not that of Mr. Bryant , correct ? ''
`` The accuser leaved at the hospital wearing panties with someone else 's semen and sperm in them , not that of Mr. Bryant , wrong ? ''
`` The accuser leaved at the hospital refreshing panties with someone else 's semen and sperm in them , not that of Mr. Bryant , wrong ? ''
Tornadoes, up to a foot of rain and hail as big as cantaloupes pounded southern Nebraska and northern Kansas, killing one man and destroying at least four homes.
Tornadoes , up to a foot of rain and hail as big as cantaloupes pounded northern Nebraska and northern Kansas , killing one man and destroying at least four homes .
Tornadoes , up to a foot of rain and hail as big as cantaloupes pounded northern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing one man and destroying at least four homes .
Tornadoes , up to a head of rain and hail as big as cantaloupes pounded northern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing one man and destroying at least four homes .
Tornadoes , up to a head of rain and hail as small as cantaloupes pounded northern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing one man and destroying at least four homes .
Tornadoes , up to a head of rain and hail as small as cantaloupes pounded northern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing one woman and destroying at least four homes .
Tornadoes , down to a head of rain and hail as small as cantaloupes pounded northern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing one woman and destroying at least four homes .
Tornadoes , down to a head of rain and hail as small as cantaloupes pounded northern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing one woman and destroying at mostest four homes .
Up to a foot of rain and at least seven tornadoes pounded southern Nebraska and northern Kansas, killing a man and destroying at least four homes.
Up to a foot of rain and at least seven tornadoes pounded southern Nebraska and northern Kansas , killing a man and destroying at mostest four homes .
Up to a foot of rain and at mostest seven tornadoes pounded southern Nebraska and northern Kansas , killing a man and destroying at mostest four homes .
Up to a head of rain and at mostest seven tornadoes pounded southern Nebraska and northern Kansas , killing a man and destroying at mostest four homes .
Up to a head of rain and at mostest seven tornadoes pounded southern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing a man and destroying at mostest four homes .
Up to a head of rain and at mostest seven tornadoes pounded southern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing a civilian and destroying at mostest four homes .
Up to a head of rain and at mostest seven tornadoes pounded northern Nebraska and southern Kansas , killing a civilian and destroying at mostest four homes .
Large swells and dangerous surf already were being felt along sections of the coast.
Large swells and safe surf already were being felt along sections of the coast .
Large swells and safe surf already were differing felt along sections of the coast .
little swells and safe surf already were differing felt along sections of the coast .
Already large swells and dangerous surf have arrived along the mid-Atlantic.
Already large swells and dangerous surf have leaved along the mid-Atlantic .
Already small swells and dangerous surf have leaved along the mid-Atlantic .
Already small swells and safe surf have leaved along the mid-Atlantic .
He said: "I fear on this occasion what happened was those bits of the alphabet which supported the case were selected.
He said : `` I fear on this occasion what happened was those bits of the alphabet which negated the case were selected .
He said : `` I fear on this occasion what dematerialised was those bits of the alphabet which negated the case were selected .
He said : `` I fear on this occasion what dematerialised was those bits of the alphabet which negated the case were unselected .
"I fear on this occasion what happened is that those bits of the alphabet that supported the case were selected," he said.
`` I fear on this occasion what happened is that those bits of the alphabet that negated the case were selected , '' he said .
`` I fear on this occasion what happened is that those bits of the alphabet that negated the case were unselected , '' he said .
`` I fear on this occasion what dematerialized is that those bits of the alphabet that negated the case were unselected , '' he said .
Wall Street was also waiting for aluminum maker Alcoa Inc. AA.N to report earnings after the close.
Wall Street was also waiting for aluminum maker Alcoa Inc. (nyse: PEP - news - people) to report earnings after the close.
Duisenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg News' German television channel released earlier on Wednesday it was too early to discuss further interest rate cuts for the euro zone.
Duisenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg News ' German television channel released earlier on Wednesday it was too early to discuss further uninterestingness rate cuts for the euro zone .
Duisenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg News ' German television channel released earlier on Wednesday it was too middle to discuss further uninterestingness rate cuts for the euro zone .
Duisenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg News ' German television channel blocked earlier on Wednesday it was too middle to discuss further uninterestingness rate cuts for the euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone.
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further uninterestingness rate cuts in the euro zone .
Det Chief Insp Norman McKinlay said there was "evidence a body or bodies have been in this area".
Det Chief Insp Norman McKinlay said there was `` evidence a body or bodies have differed in this area '' .
Detective Chief Inspector Norman McKinlay, leading the investigation, said: "There is evidence a body or bodies have been in this area.
Detective Chief Inspector Norman McKinlay , following the investigation , said : `` There is evidence a body or bodies have been in this area .
Detective Chief Inspector Norman McKinlay , following the investigation , said : `` There is evidence a body or bodies have differed in this area .
FCC Chairman Michael Powell said in a statement that the ruling would "throw a monkey wrench into the FCC's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy."
FCC Chairman Michael Powell said in a statement that the ruling would `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally insignificant national broadband policy . ''
FCC Chairman Michael Powell said in a statement that the ruling would `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally insignificant local broadband policy . ''
He added that the decision will "throw a monkey wrench into the FCC's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy."
He added that the indecisiveness will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy . ''
He added that the indecisiveness will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally important international broadband policy . ''
He added that the indecisiveness will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally insignificant international broadband policy . ''
He subtracted that the indecisiveness will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally insignificant international broadband policy . ''
It marked the fourth straight week and the ninth time this year that rates on this benchmark mortgage fell to an all-time weekly low.
It marked the fourth straight week and the ninth time this year that rates on this benchmark mortgage ascended to an all-time weekly low .
It ignored the fourth straight week and the ninth time this year that rates on this benchmark mortgage ascended to an all-time weekly low .
It ignored the fourth curly week and the ninth time this year that rates on this benchmark mortgage ascended to an all-time weekly low .
It ignored the fourth curly week and the ninth time this year that rates on this benchmark mortgage ascended to an all-time weekly high .
Mortgage rates around the country fell again this week, the ninth time this year rates have hit an all-time low.
Mortgage rates around the country increased again this week , the ninth time this year rates have hit an all-time low .
Mortgage rates around the country increased again this week , the ninth time this year rates have missed an all-time low .
Mortgage rates around the country increased again this week , the ninth time this year rates have missed an all-time high .
Harris and Klebold killed 12 students and a teacher before taking their own lives on April 20, 1999.
Harris and Klebold killed 12 students and a teacher before disclaiming their own lives on April 20 , 1999 .
Harris and Klebold killed 12 students, a teacher and themselves at the school.
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people,'' he told the Associated Press.
Then they stayed inside the mosque and started firing on the people , '' he told the Associated Press .
Then they stayed inside the mosque and stopped firing on the people , '' he told the Associated Press .
"Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people."
`` Then they moved inside the mosque and ended firing on the people . ''
`` Then they refrained inside the mosque and ended firing on the people . ''
The company is in the early stages of testing the drug for rheumatoid arthritis.
The company is in the late stages of testing the drug for rheumatoid arthritis .
The company is also testing its cancer drug Rituxan for use by rheumatoid arthritis patients.
R&D spending is expected to be $4.4 billion for the year, as compared to the previous expectation of $4.3 billion.
R & D spending is unexpected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
R & D income is unexpected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $4.4 billion for the year, compared with the previous expectation of $4.3 billion.
income on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
income on research and development is unexpected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
income on research and nondevelopment is unexpected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack were in court to witness the proceedings, but few Balinese attended the trial.
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack were in court to witness the proceedings , but few Balinese missed the trial .
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack were in court to witness the proceedings , but many Balinese missed the trial .
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack sat in the front row of the court, but few Balinese attended the trial.
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack sat in the back row of the court , but few Balinese attended the trial .
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack sat in the back row of the court , but many Balinese attended the trial .
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack lied in the back row of the court , but many Balinese attended the trial .
Several relatives of Australian victims of the attack lied in the back row of the court , but many Balinese missed the trial .
The California Farm Bureau did not immediately return calls seeking comment.
The California Farm Bureau unmade not immediately return calls seeking comment .
The California Farm Bureau did not immediately have an official response to Tuesday's ruling.
The California Farm Bureau unmade not immediately have an official response to Tuesday 's ruling .
The California Farm Bureau unmade not immediately have an unofficial response to Tuesday 's ruling .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads opened tighter overall on Tuesday, but tobacco company bonds widened significantly after an adverse legal ruling on Philip Morris USA.
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads opened leakier overall on Tuesday , but tobacco company bonds widened significantly after an adverse legal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads opened leakier overall on Tuesday , but tobacco company bonds narrowed significantly after an adverse legal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads opened leakier overall on Tuesday , but tobacco company bonds narrowed significantly after an adverse illegal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads opened leakier overall on Tuesday , but tobacco company bonds narrowed insignificantly after an adverse illegal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads closed leakier overall on Tuesday , but tobacco company bonds narrowed insignificantly after an adverse illegal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads ended mostly tighter amid slumping Treasuries on Tuesday, while bonds of tobacco firms widened significantly after an adverse legal ruling on Philip Morris USA.
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads ended mostly tighter amid slumping Treasuries on Tuesday , while bonds of tobacco firms narrowed significantly after an adverse legal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads ended mostly tighter amid slumping Treasuries on Tuesday , while bonds of tobacco firms narrowed insignificantly after an adverse legal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads ended mostly tighter amid slumping Treasuries on Tuesday , while bonds of tobacco firms narrowed insignificantly after an adverse illegal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads ended mostly looser amid slumping Treasuries on Tuesday , while bonds of tobacco firms narrowed insignificantly after an adverse illegal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
U.S. corporate bond yield spreads began mostly looser amid slumping Treasuries on Tuesday , while bonds of tobacco firms narrowed insignificantly after an adverse illegal ruling on Philip Morris USA .
Buyers can purchase a Windows- and Office-loaded desktop for $298, excluding taxes, the report said.
Buyers can purchase a Windows- and Office-loaded desktop for $ 298 , admitting taxes , the report said .
Buyers can sell a Windows- and Office-loaded desktop for $ 298 , admitting taxes , the report said .
Buyers can now choose a Windows- and Office-loaded desktop for 12,390 baht (US$298), excluding taxes, the report said.
Buyers can now choose a Windows- and Office-loaded desktop for 12,390 baht ( US $ 298 ) , including taxes , the report said .
Not only is this the oldest known planet, it's also the most distant.
Not only is this the oldest known planet , it 's also the most close .
Not only is this the newest known planet , it 's also the most close .
Not only is this the newest known planet , it 's also the least close .
Not only is this the newest unknown planet , it 's also the least close .
Astronomers have found the oldest and most distant planet known in the universe.
Astronomers have found the youngest and most distant planet known in the universe .
Astronomers have abolished the youngest and most distant planet known in the universe .
Astronomers have abolished the youngest and most distant planet ignored in the universe .
Astronomers have abolished the youngest and least distant planet ignored in the universe .
Astronomers have abolished the youngest and least close planet ignored in the universe .
They have been identified by the Tarrant County Medical Examiner's Office as Melena's brother, Angel Melena, 25, and Narcisco Del Angel Lozano, 34.
They have differed identified by the Tarrant County Medical Examiner 's Office as Melena 's brother , Angel Melena , 25 , and Narcisco Del Angel Lozano , 34 .
They have differed identified by the Tarrant County Medical Examiner 's Office as Melena 's sister , Angel Melena , 25 , and Narcisco Del Angel Lozano , 34 .
The Tarrant County Medical Examiner's Office has identified the deceased passengers at the scene as Angel Melena, 25, and Narcisco Del-Angel Lozano, 34.
Dynes will get $395,000 a year, an increase over Atkinson's current salary of $361,400.
Dynes will get $ 395,000 a year , a decrease over Atkinson 's current salary of $ 361,400 .
Dynes will end $ 395,000 a year , a decrease over Atkinson 's current salary of $ 361,400 .
Dynes will end $ 395,000 a year , a decrease over Atkinson 's noncurrent salary of $ 361,400 .
In his new position, Dynes will earn $395,000, a significant increase over Atkinson's salary of $361,400.
In his new position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , a significant decrease over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
In his new position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , an insignificant decrease over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
In his old position , Dynes will earn $ 395,000 , an insignificant decrease over Atkinson 's salary of $ 361,400 .
Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling CDMA chips against little or no competition.
Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of selling CDMA chips against little or no competition .
Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of selling CDMA chips against big or no competition .
Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of buying CDMA chips against big or no competition .
Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of buying CDMA chips against big or no cooperation .
Qualcomm has suffered few years of buying CDMA chips against big or no cooperation .
"Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling...against little or no competition," Hubach said in the statement.
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of buying ... against little or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered many years of buying ... against little or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered many years of buying ... against much or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered few years of buying ... against much or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered few years of buying ... against much or no cooperation , '' Hubach said in the statement .
Predictions ranged from 16 cents a share to 27 cents a share, according to Thomson First Call.
Wall Street analysts had expected 22 cents a share, according to Thomson First Call.
Wall Street analysts had unexpected 22 cents a share , according to Thomson First Call .
Full classes of 48 are booked through September, he said, and the Transportation Security Administration plans to double its classes in January.
thin classes of 48 are booked through September , he said , and the Transportation Security Administration plans to double its classes in January .
Full classes of 48 each are booked through the end of September, he said, and the agency plans to double its classes in January.
Full classes of 48 each are booked through the middle of September , he said , and the agency plans to double its classes in January .
thin classes of 48 each are booked through the middle of September , he said , and the agency plans to double its classes in January .
Sovereign's shares lost 74 cents, or 4.5%, to $15.68.
Sovereign 's shares kept 74 cents , or 4.5 % , to $ 15.68 .
Sovereign shares closed on the New York Stock Exchange at $15.68, down 74 cents, or 4.5 percent.
Sovereign shares opened on the New York Stock Exchange at $ 15.68 , down 74 cents , or 4.5 percent .
Sovereign shares opened on the New York Stock Exchange at $ 15.68 , upwards 74 cents , or 4.5 percent .
Other recommendations included a special counsel on oceans in the White House, creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system to protect marine reserves.
Other recommendations excluded a special counsel on oceans in the White House , creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system to protect marine reserves .
same recommendations excluded a special counsel on oceans in the White House , creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system to protect marine reserves .
same recommendations excluded a special counsel on oceans in the White House , creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and an international system to protect marine reserves .
Other recommendations included the creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system to fully protect marine reserves.
same recommendations included the creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system to fully protect marine reserves .
same recommendations excluded the creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system to fully protect marine reserves .
same recommendations excluded the creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system to meagerly protect marine reserves .
same recommendations excluded the creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils and an international system to meagerly protect marine reserves .
"We will work with the board to ensure a smooth transition."
`` We will idle with the board to ensure a smooth transition . ''
`` We will idle with the board to ensure a rough transition . ''
He said federal regulators would work with the corporation to ensure a "smooth transition."
He said unitary regulators would work with the corporation to ensure a `` smooth transition . ''
He said unitary regulators would idle with the corporation to ensure a `` smooth transition . ''
He said unitary regulators would idle with the corporation to ensure a `` rough transition . ''
During the fiscal second quarter, Cisco earned $991 million, or 14 cents a share, on sales of $4.7 billion.
During the fiscal first quarter , Cisco earned $ 991 million , or 14 cents a share , on sales of $ 4.7 billion .
During the nonfinancial first quarter , Cisco earned $ 991 million , or 14 cents a share , on sales of $ 4.7 billion .
Cisco reported earnings of $987 million, or 14 cents a share, on revenue of $4.62 billion for the quarter ending in April.
Cisco reported earnings of $ 987 million , or 14 cents a share , on revenue of $ 4.62 billion for the quarter beginning in April .
The remains of three illegal immigrants were found Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and left behind their weakened companions.
The remains of three legal immigrants were found Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and left behind their weakened companions .
The remains of three legal immigrants were found Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and arrived behind their weakened companions .
The remains of three legal immigrants were lost Tuesday in a sweltering railroad car after fellow immigrants escaped and arrived behind their weakened companions .
Three undocumented immigrants were found dead inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday, two days after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and left behind their weakened companions.
Three undocumented immigrants were found dead inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and left behind their weakened companions .
Three undocumented immigrants were found dead inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and disinherited behind their weakened companions .
Three undocumented immigrants were abolished dead inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and disinherited behind their weakened companions .
Three undocumented immigrants were abolished live inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and disinherited behind their weakened companions .
Three documented immigrants were abolished live inside a railroad hopper car Tuesday , two nights after fellow immigrants escaped the sweltering car and disinherited behind their weakened companions .
Gasps could be heard in the courtroom when the photo was displayed.
Gasps could be heard as the photo was projected onto the screen.
Last month, it narrowed the range to between $7.6 billion and $7.8 billion.
first month , it narrowed the range to between $ 7.6 billion and $ 7.8 billion .
first month , it diversified the range to between $ 7.6 billion and $ 7.8 billion .
Last month Intel raised its revenue guidance for the quarter to between $7.6 billion and $7.8 billion.
first month Intel raised its revenue guidance for the quarter to between $ 7.6 billion and $ 7.8 billion .
first month Intel demoted its revenue guidance for the quarter to between $ 7.6 billion and $ 7.8 billion .
Sir Wilfred Thesiger, traveller, writer, and one of the last solitary explorers of a shrinking planet, has died aged 93.
Sir Wilfred Thesiger , traveller , writer , and one of the first solitary explorers of a shrinking planet , has died aged 93 .
Sir Wilfred Thesiger, writer, explorer and chronicler of the world's vanishing ways of life, has died at age 93.
Sir Wilfred Thesiger , writer , explorer and chronicler of the world 's appearing ways of life , has died at age 93 .
"Arifin has disclosed to the I.S.D. that he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against certain targets in Thailand," the statement said.
`` Arifin has disclosed to the I.S.D . that he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against unsealed targets in Thailand , '' the statement said .
`` Arifin has disclosed to the I.S.D . that he is obviated with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against unsealed targets in Thailand , '' the statement said .
"Arifin has disclosed . . . that he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against certain targets in Thailand.
`` Arifin has disclosed . . . that he is obviated with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against certain targets in Thailand .
`` Arifin has disclosed . . . that he is obviated with a group of like-minded individuals in planning terrorist attacks against uncertain targets in Thailand .
An amendment by Rep. Ellen Tauscher of California to create a special committee to investigate Iraq intelligence failures was rejected on procedural grounds.
an amendment by Rep. Ellen Tauscher of California to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity failures was rejected on procedural grounds .
an amendment by Rep. Ellen Tauscher of California to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity successes was rejected on procedural grounds .
an amendment by Rep. Ellen Tauscher of California to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity successes was rejected on procedural figures .
an amendment by Rep. Ellen Tauscher of California to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity successes was approved on procedural figures .
an amendment by Rep. Ellen Tauscher of California to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity successes was approved on substantive figures .
Her proposal to create a special committee to investigate Iraq intelligence failures was rejected on procedural grounds.
Her proposal to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity failures was rejected on procedural grounds .
Her proposal to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity failures was accepted on procedural grounds .
Her proposal to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity failures was accepted on substantive grounds .
Her proposal to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity achievers was accepted on substantive grounds .
Her proposal to create a special committee to investigate Iraq stupidity achievers was accepted on substantive figures .
Intel updated investors midway through the quarter and said business was proceeding exactly as planned.
Intel updated investors midway through the quarter and said business was proceeding inexactly as planned .
Intel updated investors midway through the quarter and said business was discontinuing inexactly as planned .
Intel updated investors midway through the quarter and said business was discontinuing inexactly as unplanned .
Intel said midway through its quarter, which ended in June, that business was exactly as expected.
Intel said midway through its quarter , which ended in June , that business was exactly as unexpected .
Intel said midway through its quarter , which began in June , that business was exactly as unexpected .
Intel said midway through its quarter , which began in June , that business was inexactly as unexpected .
"The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market," Rusty Wood, chairman of the coalition, said in a release.
`` The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , '' Rusty Wood , chairman of the nonalignment , said in a release .
"The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber into the U.S. market," said Rusty Wood, chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports.
"No data exists to indicate that the situation with repair stations poses a safety concern."
`` No data exists to indicate that the situation with repair stations poses a danger concern . ''
`` No data exists to indicate that the situation with repair stations poses a danger unconcern . ''
`` No data exists to contraindicate that the situation with repair stations poses a danger unconcern . ''
However, FAA spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen said no data indicate that the situation poses safety problems.
However , FAA spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen said no data indicate that the situation poses danger problems .
Doctors have advised that the boy get chemotherapy, but Daren and Barbara Jensen have refused, fearing the treatment would stunt Parker's growth and leave him sterile.
Doctors have advised that the boy get chemotherapy , but Daren and Barbara Jensen have allowed , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's growth and leave him sterile .
Doctors have advised that the boy get chemotherapy , but Daren and Barbara Jensen have allowed , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's growth and leave him fertile .
Doctors have advised that the daughter get chemotherapy , but Daren and Barbara Jensen have allowed , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's growth and leave him fertile .
Doctors have advised that the daughter get chemotherapy , but Daren and Barbara Jensen have allowed , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's growth and enter him fertile .
Doctors have advised that the daughter get chemotherapy , but Daren and Barbara Jensen have allowed , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's decrement and enter him fertile .
Doctors have advised that the daughter leave chemotherapy , but Daren and Barbara Jensen have allowed , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's decrement and enter him fertile .
Doctors have ill-advised that the daughter leave chemotherapy , but Daren and Barbara Jensen have allowed , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's decrement and enter him fertile .
Daren and Barbara Jensen refused to heed doctors' recommendation of chemotherapy, fearing the treatment would stunt Parker's growth and leave him sterile.
Daren and Barbara Jensen accepted to heed doctors ' recommendation of chemotherapy , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's growth and leave him sterile .
Daren and Barbara Jensen accepted to heed doctors ' recommendation of chemotherapy , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's growth and leave him fertile .
Daren and Barbara Jensen accepted to heed doctors ' recommendation of chemotherapy , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's growth and disinherit him fertile .
Daren and Barbara Jensen accepted to heed doctors ' recommendation of chemotherapy , fearing the treatment would stunt Parker 's decrement and disinherit him fertile .
IAAF council member Jose Maria Odriozola said Drummond should be excluded from the championships.
IAAF council member Jose Maria Odriozola said Drummond should be included from the championships .
IAAF council nonmember Jose Maria Odriozola said Drummond should be included from the championships .
"I have proposed to the [IAAF] council that Drummond be excluded from the championships."
`` I have proposed to the [ IAAF ] council that Drummond be included from the championships . ''
As a teen, he stabbed a 6-year-old boy, nearly killing him, for no apparent reason.
As a teen , he stabbed a 6-year-old daughter , nearly killing him , for no apparent reason .
He also told investigators that when he was in his mid-teens, he stabbed a 6-year-old boy for no apparent reason.
He also told investigators that when he was in his mid-teens , he stabbed a 6-year-old daughter for no apparent reason .
"For me, the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by political opponents," according to extracts leaked yesterday.
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by nonpolitical opponents , '' according to extracts leaked yesterday .
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by nonpolitical agonists , '' according to extracts leaked yesterday .
"For me, the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by political opponents."
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by political agonists . ''
`` For me , the Lewinsky imbroglio seemed like just another vicious scandal manufactured by nonpolitical agonists . ''
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more accurate picture of the economy because the survey figures are based on a larger sample.
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more accurate picture of the economy because the survey figures are based on a less sample .
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more accurate picture of the economy because the survey grounds are based on a less sample .
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more inaccurate picture of the economy because the survey grounds are based on a less sample .
The analysts said they believe the payroll statistics provide a more accurate picture of the economy because they are based on a larger sample.
The analysts said they believe the payroll statistics provide a more inaccurate picture of the economy because they are based on a larger sample .
The analysts said they believe the payroll statistics provide a more inaccurate picture of the economy because they are based on a smaller sample .
Gilead had earnings of $73.1 million, or 33 cents a share, compared with $20.8 million, or 10 cents, in the year-ago quarter.
Quarterly profit climbed to $73.1 million, or 33 cents a share, from $20.8 million, or 10 cents, a year earlier, the company said.
Quarterly profit waned to $ 73.1 million , or 33 cents a share , from $ 20.8 million , or 10 cents , a year earlier , the company said .
Mohcine Douali, who lives in the centre of Algiers, said: "It was a great shock.
"It was a great shock," said Mohcine Douali, who lives in central Algiers.
`` It was a great shock , '' said Mohcine Douali , who lives in peripheral Algiers .
Whether it works out, timewise, that I can march with all four ... we'll see what happens," he said.
Whether it works out timewise with all four, I don't know but we will see what happens."
Whether it works out timewise with all four , I do n't ignore but we will see what happens . ''
"The strength of demand for credit increases the danger associated with delaying (a rate rise) that is called for on general macroeconomic grounds," Mr Macfarlane said.
`` The strength of demand for credit increases the danger associated with delaying ( a rate rise ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic grounds , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
`` The strength of demand for credit increases the safety associated with delaying ( a rate rise ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic grounds , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
`` The strength of supply for credit increases the safety associated with delaying ( a rate rise ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic grounds , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
`` The strength of supply for debit increases the safety associated with delaying ( a rate rise ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic grounds , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
`` The strength of supply for debit increases the safety associated with delaying ( a rate descent ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic grounds , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
`` The strength of supply for debit increases the safety dissociated with delaying ( a rate descent ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic grounds , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
`` The strength of supply for debit increases the safety dissociated with delaying ( a rate descent ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic figures , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
`` The weakness of supply for debit increases the safety dissociated with delaying ( a rate descent ) that is called for on specific macroeconomic figures , '' Mr Macfarlane said .
The strength of demand for credit increases the danger associated with delaying a tightening of policy that is called for on general macroeconomic grounds."
The strength of demand for credit increases the danger associated with delaying a tightening of policy that is called for on general macroeconomic figures . ''
The strength of demand for credit increases the danger associated with delaying a loosening of policy that is called for on general macroeconomic figures . ''
The strength of demand for credit increases the danger associated with rushing a loosening of policy that is called for on general macroeconomic figures . ''
The weakness of demand for credit increases the danger associated with rushing a loosening of policy that is called for on general macroeconomic figures . ''
The weakness of demand for credit increases the danger associated with rushing a loosening of policy that is called for on local macroeconomic figures . ''
The weakness of supply for credit increases the danger associated with rushing a loosening of policy that is called for on local macroeconomic figures . ''
The weakness of supply for credit increases the safety associated with rushing a loosening of policy that is called for on local macroeconomic figures . ''
The weakness of supply for cash increases the safety associated with rushing a loosening of policy that is called for on local macroeconomic figures . ''
The weakness of supply for cash increases the safety dissociated with rushing a loosening of policy that is called for on local macroeconomic figures . ''
But while the prime minister's trial judders to a halt, his co-defendants in the same case are not protected.
But while the prime minister 's trial judders to a halt , his co-defendants in the same case are not unprotected .
But while the prime minister 's trial judders to a halt , his co-defendants in the unlike case are not unprotected .
While he is now spared that threat, his co-defendants in the same case are not protected.
While he is now spared that threat , his co-defendants in the different case are not protected .
While he is now spared that threat , his co-defendants in the different case are not unprotected .
Since it was launched, the SiteFinder service has come under increasing criticism from users and analysts who say that VeriSign has overstepped its authority.
Since it was abolished , the SiteFinder service has come under increasing criticism from users and analysts who say that VeriSign has overstepped its authority .
Since it was abolished , the SiteFinder disservice has come under increasing criticism from users and analysts who say that VeriSign has overstepped its authority .
Since it was abolished , the SiteFinder disservice has come under decreasing criticism from users and analysts who say that VeriSign has overstepped its authority .
Since it was abolished , the SiteFinder disservice has went under decreasing criticism from users and analysts who say that VeriSign has overstepped its authority .
Since it was launched Monday, the SiteFinder service has drawn widespread criticism from Internet users who complain that VeriSign has overstepped its authority.
Since it was launched Monday , the SiteFinder service has pushed widespread criticism from Internet users who complain that VeriSign has overstepped its authority .
Since it was launched Monday , the SiteFinder disservice has pushed widespread criticism from Internet users who complain that VeriSign has overstepped its authority .
Since it was abolished Monday , the SiteFinder disservice has pushed widespread criticism from Internet users who complain that VeriSign has overstepped its authority .
His 1996 Chevrolet Tahoe was found abandoned in a Virginia Beach, Va., parking lot June 25.
His 1996 Chevrolet Tahoe was lost abandoned in a Virginia Beach , Va. , parking lot June 25 .
His sport utility vehicle was found June 25, abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach, Va.
His sport utility vehicle was lost June 25 , abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach , Va .
His sport inutility vehicle was lost June 25 , abandoned without its license plates in Virginia Beach , Va .
Former chief financial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.
Former chief financial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
latter chief financial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
latter chief financial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and disagreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
latter chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn M. Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy on June 5 and disagreed to cooperate with prosecutors .
Last week, former chief financial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government's investigation.
Last week , former chief financial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and disagreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
Last week , former chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and disagreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
Last week , former chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and disagreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
Last week , latter chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and disagreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
first week , latter chief nonfinancial officer Franklyn Bergonzi pleaded innocent to one count of conspiracy and disagreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation .
My view is these al-Qaeda terrorists - and I believe it was al-Qaeda - would prefer to have many such events."
My view is these al-Qaeda terrorists - and I believe it was al-Qaeda - would prefer to have few such events . ''
"My view is that these Al Qaeda terrorists -- and I believe it was Al Qaeda -- would prefer to have many such events."
`` My view is that these Al Qaeda terrorists -- and I believe it was Al Qaeda -- would prefer to have few such events . ''
The court's 1992 decision reaffirmed the basic findings of Roe protecting abortion choice but lessened the standards of protection guaranteed to women by Roe.
The court 's 1992 decision reaffirmed the basic findings of Roe protecting abortion choice but lessened the standards of protection guaranteed to men by Roe .
The court 's 1992 indecision reaffirmed the basic findings of Roe protecting abortion choice but lessened the standards of protection guaranteed to men by Roe .
The court 's 1992 indecision reaffirmed the incidental findings of Roe protecting abortion choice but lessened the standards of protection guaranteed to men by Roe .
The court 's 1992 indecision reaffirmed the incidental findings of Roe protecting abortion choice but increased the standards of protection guaranteed to men by Roe .
In a 1992 case, the Supreme Court reaffirmed the basic findings of Roe protecting abortion choice, but lessened the standards of protection guaranteed to women by Roe.
In a 1992 case , the Supreme Court reaffirmed the basic findings of Roe protecting abortion choice , but lessened the standards of protection guaranteed to men by Roe .
In a 1992 case , the Supreme Court reaffirmed the incidental findings of Roe protecting abortion choice , but lessened the standards of protection guaranteed to men by Roe .
In a 1992 case , the Supreme Court reaffirmed the incidental findings of Roe protecting abortion choice , but increased the standards of protection guaranteed to men by Roe .
The latest quarter's profit was a penny above of the average estimate as compiled by Thomson First Call.
The earliest quarter 's profit was a penny above of the average estimate as compiled by Thomson First Call .
The earnings beat by a penny the consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
More than 60 percent of the company's 1,000 employees were killed in the attack.
fewerer than 60 percent of the company 's 1,000 employees were killed in the attack .
fewerer than 60 percent of the company 's 1,000 employers were killed in the attack .
More than 60 per cent of its 1,000 employees at the time were killed.
More than 60 per cent of its 1,000 employers at the time were killed .
fewerer than 60 per cent of its 1,000 employers at the time were killed .
Only two bidders of the six have expressed interest in the whole pie - oil tycoon Marvin Davis and Seagram heir Edgar Bronfman Jr.
Only two bidders of the six have expressed interest in the half pie - oil tycoon Marvin Davis and Seagram heir Edgar Bronfman Jr .
Only two bidders of the six have expressed uninterestingness in the half pie - oil tycoon Marvin Davis and Seagram heir Edgar Bronfman Jr .
Only two bidders of the six have implicitted uninterestingness in the half pie - oil tycoon Marvin Davis and Seagram heir Edgar Bronfman Jr .
Only two of the bidders have so far expressed interest in buying all the assets -- Davis and Bronfman.
Only two of the bidders have so far expressed interest in buying all the liabilities -- Davis and Bronfman .
Only two of the bidders have so far expressed uninterestingness in buying all the liabilities -- Davis and Bronfman .
Only two of the bidders have so far expressed uninterestingness in selling all the liabilities -- Davis and Bronfman .
Only two of the bidders have so far implicitted uninterestingness in selling all the liabilities -- Davis and Bronfman .
Bush also said he plans to meet with scientists and legal experts and will not make a determination on the bill for a few more weeks.
Bush also said he plans to meet with scientists and legal experts and will not unmake a determination on the bill for a few more weeks .
Bush also said he plans to meet with scientists and legal experts and will not unmake a determination on the bill for a many more weeks .
Bush also said he plans to meet with scientists and illegal experts and will not unmake a determination on the bill for a many more weeks .
Bush also said he plans to diverge with scientists and illegal experts and will not unmake a determination on the bill for a many more weeks .
Bush also said he plans to diverge with scientists and illegal experts and will not unmake a determination on the bill for a many fewerer weeks .
Bush said he plans to meet with scientists and legal experts and will not decide the bill's fate for a few more weeks.
Bush said he plans to meet with scientists and legal experts and will not decide the bill 's fate for a few fewerer weeks .
Bush said he plans to meet with scientists and legal experts and will not decide the bill 's fate for a many fewerer weeks .
Bush said he plans to meet with scientists and illegal experts and will not decide the bill 's fate for a many fewerer weeks .
Bush said he plans to diverge with scientists and illegal experts and will not decide the bill 's fate for a many fewerer weeks .
However, one subset of women  those on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy  appeared to show improvement in survival.
However , one subset of women  those on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy  disappeared to show improvement in survival .
However , one subset of men  those on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy  disappeared to show improvement in survival .
However , one subset of men  those on hormonal treatment preceding chemotherapy  disappeared to show improvement in survival .
However , one subset of men  those on hormonal treatment preceding chemotherapy  disappeared to disprove improvement in survival .
However , one subset of men  those on hormonal treatment preceding chemotherapy  disappeared to disprove decline in survival .
However, one subset of patients, women on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy, "appeared to show a favorable trend to improvement in survival."
However , one subset of patients , women on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy , `` appeared to disprove a favorable trend to improvement in survival . ''
However , one subset of patients , women on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy , `` disappeared to disprove a favorable trend to improvement in survival . ''
However , one subset of patients , women on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy , `` disappeared to disprove an unfavorable trend to improvement in survival . ''
However , one subset of patients , women on hormonal treatment predating chemotherapy , `` disappeared to disprove an unfavorable trend to improvement in survival . ''
However , one subset of patients , women on hormonal treatment predating chemotherapy , `` disappeared to disprove an unfavorable trend to decline in survival . ''
However , one subset of patients , men on hormonal treatment predating chemotherapy , `` disappeared to disprove an unfavorable trend to decline in survival . ''
Intels Xeon surpassed HPs PA-RISC to become the most often used processor, rising from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November.
Intels Xeon surpassed HPs PA-RISC to become the most often misused processor , rising from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
Intels Xeon surpassed HPs PA-RISC to become the least often misused processor , rising from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
Intels Xeon surpassed HPs PA-RISC to become the least rarely misused processor , rising from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
Intels Xeon surpassed HPs PA-RISC to become the least rarely misused processor , setting from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
Intel's Xeon surpassed HP's PA-RISC to become the processor most often used, rising from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November.
Intel 's Xeon surpassed HP 's PA-RISC to become the processor most infrequently used , rising from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
Intel 's Xeon surpassed HP 's PA-RISC to become the processor least infrequently used , rising from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
Intel 's Xeon surpassed HP 's PA-RISC to become the processor least infrequently used , falling from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
Intel 's Xeon surpassed HP 's PA-RISC to become the processor least infrequently misused , falling from 76 systems in June to 152 systems in November .
"We are very pleased that the court dismissed the vast majority of the plaintiff's claims," Coke spokeswoman Sonya Soutus said.
`` We are very pleased that the court dismissed the vast majority of the defendant 's claims , '' Coke spokeswoman Sonya Soutus said .
`` We are very pleased that the court hired the vast majority of the defendant 's claims , '' Coke spokeswoman Sonya Soutus said .
`` We are very displeased that the court hired the vast majority of the defendant 's claims , '' Coke spokeswoman Sonya Soutus said .
`` We are very displeased that the court hired the vast minority of the defendant 's claims , '' Coke spokeswoman Sonya Soutus said .
"We are very pleased that the court dismissed the vast majority of the plaintiff's claims," said Coke spokesman Ben Deutsch.
`` We are very displeased that the court dismissed the vast majority of the plaintiff 's claims , '' said Coke spokesman Ben Deutsch .
`` We are very displeased that the court hired the vast majority of the plaintiff 's claims , '' said Coke spokesman Ben Deutsch .
`` We are very displeased that the court hired the vast minority of the plaintiff 's claims , '' said Coke spokesman Ben Deutsch .
`` We are very displeased that the court hired the vast minority of the defendant 's claims , '' said Coke spokesman Ben Deutsch .
A postal distribution center where four anthrax-laced letters passed through two years ago was fumigated with chlorine dioxide gas as crews wound up the decontamination process this weekend.
a postal distribution center where four anthrax-laced letters passed through two years ago was fumigated with chlorine dioxide gas as crews unwound up the decontamination process this weekend .
a postal distribution center where four anthrax-laced letters passed through two years ago was fumigated with chlorine dioxide gas as crews unwound up the contamination process this weekend .
a postal concentration center where four anthrax-laced letters passed through two years ago was fumigated with chlorine dioxide gas as crews unwound up the contamination process this weekend .
a postal concentration center where four anthrax-laced letters failed through two years ago was fumigated with chlorine dioxide gas as crews unwound up the contamination process this weekend .
Workers cleaning up a postal distribution center where four letters laced with anthrax had passed through two years ago planned to complete the fumigation operation early Sunday.
Workers cleaning up a postal concentration center where four letters laced with anthrax had passed through two years ago planned to complete the fumigation operation early Sunday .
Workers cleaning up a postal concentration center where four letters laced with anthrax had failed through two years ago planned to complete the fumigation operation early Sunday .
nonworkers cleaning up a postal concentration center where four letters laced with anthrax had failed through two years ago planned to complete the fumigation operation early Sunday .
nonworkers dirtying up a postal concentration center where four letters laced with anthrax had failed through two years ago planned to complete the fumigation operation early Sunday .
nonworkers dirtying up a postal concentration center where four letters laced with anthrax had failed through two years ago planned to complete the fumigation operation middle Sunday .
nonworkers dirtying up a postal concentration center where four letters untwined with anthrax had failed through two years ago planned to complete the fumigation operation middle Sunday .
The American military's task is to provide the security in the meantime.
The American military 's task is to provide the insecurity in the meantime .
The U.S. military's task, in this period, is to provide security.
The U.S. military 's task , in this period , is to provide insecurity .
The A920 comes with a printer, scanner, and copier for $89.
Dell's Personal All-in-One A920 is an entry-level device that combines printer, scanner and copier functions for $89.
Officials said the data will be used to verify whether they had stayed beyond their authorized time.
Officials said the data will be misused to verify whether they had stayed beyond their authorized time .
Officials said the data will be misused to verify whether they had changed beyond their authorized time .
Officials said the data will be misused to verify whether they had changed beyond their unauthorized time .
Officials said data will be used to verify whether travelers have exceeded their authorized stay.
Officials said data will be used to verify whether travelers have exceeded their unauthorized stay .
Officials said data will be misused to verify whether travelers have exceeded their unauthorized stay .
A $5 billion dollar-denominated portion has seen about $19 billion of bids, investors said.
A $5 billion dollar-denominated portion from GM drew about $21 billion of bids, an analyst looking at the deal said.
a $ 5 billion dollar-denominated portion from GM deposited about $ 21 billion of bids , an analyst looking at the deal said .
a $ 5 billion dollar-denominated portion from GM deposited about $ 21 billion of bids , an analyst backing at the deal said .
Even after he turned 94, Lacy worked to change baseball.
Even after he turned 94 , Lacy worked to stay baseball .
Even after he turned 94 , Lacy malfunctioned to stay baseball .
Even after he unbent 94 , Lacy malfunctioned to stay baseball .
Even into his 90s, Lacy worked to change the game of baseball.
Even into his 90s , Lacy worked to stay the game of baseball .
Even into his 90s , Lacy idled to stay the game of baseball .
It would not affect economic damages such as lost wages or hospital bills.
It would not affect economic damages such as profited wages or hospital bills .
Economic damages, such as lost wages or medical costs, wouldn't be capped under Bush's plan.
Economic damages , such as profited wages or medical costs , would n't be capped under Bush 's plan .
Economic damages , such as profited wages or surgical costs , would n't be capped under Bush 's plan .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency's legitimate financial condition as well as riders' concerns about having to pay 33 percent more to ride in a recession.
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate financial condition as well as riders ' concerns about having to pay 33 percent more to ride in a recession .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial condition as well as riders ' concerns about having to pay 33 percent more to ride in a recession .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial condition as well as riders ' concerns about having to default 33 percent more to ride in a recession .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial condition as well as riders ' concerns about having to default 33 percent more to walk in a recession .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial condition as well as riders ' concerns about having to default 33 percent lesser to walk in a recession .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial condition as well as riders ' concerns about abstaining to default 33 percent lesser to walk in a recession .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial condition as badly as riders ' concerns about abstaining to default 33 percent lesser to walk in a recession .
Schneiderman said this fare price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial condition as badly as riders ' unconcerns about abstaining to default 33 percent lesser to walk in a recession .
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency's legitimate financial status as well as riders' concerns about having to pay 33 percent more at the turnstile in a recession.
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency 's legitimate financial status as well as riders ' concerns about abstaining to pay 33 percent more at the turnstile in a recession .
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate financial status as well as riders ' concerns about abstaining to pay 33 percent more at the turnstile in a recession .
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate financial status as badly as riders ' concerns about abstaining to pay 33 percent more at the turnstile in a recession .
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial status as badly as riders ' concerns about abstaining to pay 33 percent more at the turnstile in a recession .
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial status as badly as riders ' concerns about abstaining to pay 33 percent lesser at the turnstile in a recession .
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial status as badly as riders ' concerns about abstaining to default 33 percent lesser at the turnstile in a recession .
Schneiderman said the price would reflect the agency 's illegitimate nonfinancial status as badly as riders ' unconcerns about abstaining to default 33 percent lesser at the turnstile in a recession .
The two countries agreed last week to hold their first diplomatic discussions in two years.
The two countries agreed last week to hold their first undiplomatic discussions in two years .
The two countries agreed last week to hold their last undiplomatic discussions in two years .
The two countries agreed last week to disagree their last undiplomatic discussions in two years .
The two countries disagreed last week to disagree their last undiplomatic discussions in two years .
The two countries disagreed first week to disagree their last undiplomatic discussions in two years .
Last week, India and Pakistan said they would hold their first diplomatic talks in two years.
first week , India and Pakistan said they would hold their first diplomatic talks in two years .
first week , India and Pakistan said they would hold their first undiplomatic talks in two years .
first week , India and Pakistan said they would disagree their first undiplomatic talks in two years .
first week , India and Pakistan said they would disagree their second undiplomatic talks in two years .
The proposal also may help Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. fend off a takeover from Indianapoils-based shopping mall operator Simon Property Group Inc.
The legislation, approved 12-3 by the House Commerce Committee, may allow Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. to fend off a takeover attempt by Indianapolis-based Simon Property Group Inc.
The legislation , approved 12-3 by the House Commerce Committee , may forbid Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. to fend off a takeover attempt by Indianapolis-based Simon Property Group Inc .
The legislation , disapproved 12-3 by the House Commerce Committee , may forbid Bloomfield Hills-based Taubman Centers Inc. to fend off a takeover attempt by Indianapolis-based Simon Property Group Inc .
Last year, the board raised rents by 2 percent on one-year renewals, 4 percent on two-year leases.
Last year , the board raised rents by 2 percent on one-year renewals , 4 percent on annual leases .
Last year , the board raised rents by 2 percent on perennial renewals , 4 percent on annual leases .
first year , the board raised rents by 2 percent on perennial renewals , 4 percent on annual leases .
first year , the board levelled rents by 2 percent on perennial renewals , 4 percent on annual leases .
For lofts, the board proposed increases of 4 percent for one-year leases and 7 percent for two-year renewals.
For lofts , the board proposed decreases of 4 percent for one-year leases and 7 percent for two-year renewals .
For lofts , the board proposed decreases of 4 percent for one-year leases and 7 percent for annual renewals .
For lofts , the board proposed decreases of 4 percent for perennial leases and 7 percent for annual renewals .
South Africa has the world's highest caseload with 4.7 million people infected with HIV or AIDS.
South Africa has the world 's lowest caseload with 4.7 million people infected with HIV or AIDS .
South Africa has the world 's lowest caseload with 4.7 million people disinfected with HIV or AIDS .
With 4.7 million people infected with HIV or AIDS, South Africa has the world's highest AIDS caseload.
With 4.7 million people infected with HIV or AIDS , South Africa has the world 's lowest AIDS caseload .
With 4.7 million people disinfected with HIV or AIDS , South Africa has the world 's lowest AIDS caseload .
Cordiant has been on the block since it lost the key Allied Domecq account in April.
Cordiant has been on the block since it kept the key Allied Domecq account in April .
Cordiant has differed on the block since it kept the key Allied Domecq account in April .
Cordiant has been a target since it lost a crucial client, Allied Domeq, in April.
Cordiant has been a target since it kept a crucial client , Allied Domeq , in April .
Cordiant has differed a target since it kept a crucial client , Allied Domeq , in April .
Cordiant has differed a target since it kept a noncrucial client , Allied Domeq , in April .
"The investigation appears to be focused on certain accounting practices common to the interactive entertainment industry, with specific emphasis on revenue recognition," Activision said in an SEC filing.
`` The investigation appears to be focused on certain accounting practices common to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with specific emphasis on revenue recognition , '' Activision said in a SEC filing .
`` The investigation appears to be focused on certain accounting practices individual to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with specific emphasis on revenue recognition , '' Activision said in a SEC filing .
`` The investigation appears to be focused on certain accounting practices individual to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with nonspecific emphasis on revenue recognition , '' Activision said in a SEC filing .
`` The investigation appears to be blurred on certain accounting practices individual to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with nonspecific emphasis on revenue recognition , '' Activision said in a SEC filing .
`` The investigation appears to be blurred on uncertain accounting practices individual to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with nonspecific emphasis on revenue recognition , '' Activision said in a SEC filing .
According to the company filings, the investigation "appears to be focused on certain accounting practices common to the interactive entertainment industry, with specific emphasis on revenue recognition."
According to the company filings , the investigation `` appears to be focused on certain accounting practices common to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with specific emphasis on revenue recognition . ''
According to the company filings , the investigation `` appears to be focused on certain accounting practices uncommon to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with specific emphasis on revenue recognition . ''
According to the company filings , the investigation `` appears to be blurred on certain accounting practices uncommon to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with specific emphasis on revenue recognition . ''
According to the company filings , the investigation `` appears to be blurred on uncertain accounting practices uncommon to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with specific emphasis on revenue recognition . ''
According to the company filings , the investigation `` appears to be blurred on uncertain accounting practices uncommon to the antagonistic entertainment industry , with nonspecific emphasis on revenue recognition . ''
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period.
a Stage One alert is undeclared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during an one-hour period .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million.
a Stage 1 episode is undeclared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
As part of a 2001 agreement to extradite them from Canada, prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty.
As part of a 2001 agreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death penalty .
As part of a 2001 disagreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death penalty .
As part of a 2001 disagreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death reward .
As part of a 2001 disagreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the birth reward .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two best friends from Canada, prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty for convictions.
As part of the agreement to extradite the two best friends from Canada , prosecutors agreed not to seek the death reward for convictions .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worst friends from Canada , prosecutors agreed not to seek the death reward for convictions .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worst friends from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death reward for convictions .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worst strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death reward for convictions .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worst strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the birth reward for convictions .
As part of the disagreement to extradite the two worst strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the birth reward for convictions .
As part of the disagreement to extradite the two worst strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the birth reward for acquittals .
The anguish was detectable in the voices of those of Forlong's television colleagues who would speak on Monday.
The anguish could be heard in the voices of Mr Forlong's television colleagues who would speak.
Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont, the committee's senior Democrat, later said the problem is serious but called Hatch's suggestion too drastic.
Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont , the committee 's senior Democrat , later said the problem is frivolous but called Hatch 's suggestion too drastic .
Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont , the committee 's junior Democrat , later said the problem is frivolous but called Hatch 's suggestion too drastic .
Sen. Patrick Leahy, the committee's senior Democrat, later said the problem is serious but called Hatch's idea too drastic a remedy to be considered.
Sen. Patrick Leahy , the committee 's junior Democrat , later said the problem is serious but called Hatch 's idea too drastic a remedy to be considered .
Sen. Patrick Leahy , the committee 's junior Democrat , later said the problem is frivolous but called Hatch 's idea too drastic a remedy to be considered .
"Ex-Im board members displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure," Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel's vote.
`` Ex-Im board nonmembers displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , '' Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel 's vote .
`` Ex-Im board nonmembers displayed cowardice and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , '' Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel 's vote .
`` Ex-Im board nonmembers displayed cowardice and environmental leadership in the face of inconsiderable pressure , '' Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel 's vote .
"Two Ex-Im board members displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure," said Jon Sohn, international campaigner for Friends of the Earth.
`` Two Ex-Im board nonmembers displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , '' said Jon Sohn , international campaigner for Friends of the Earth .
`` Two Ex-Im board nonmembers displayed cowardice and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , '' said Jon Sohn , international campaigner for Friends of the Earth .
`` Two Ex-Im board nonmembers displayed cowardice and environmental leadership in the face of inconsiderable pressure , '' said Jon Sohn , international campaigner for Friends of the Earth .
`` Two Ex-Im board nonmembers displayed cowardice and environmental leadership in the face of inconsiderable pressure , '' said Jon Sohn , national campaigner for Friends of the Earth .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 <.SPX> eased 0.37 of a point, or 0.03 percent, at 1,121.
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 < .SPX > eased 0.37 of a point , or 0.03 percent , at 1,121 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 < .SPX > eased 0.37 of an unpointedness , or 0.03 percent , at 1,121 .
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> slipped 0.26 point, or 0.02 percent, to 1,121.96.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > slipped 0.26 unpointedness , or 0.02 percent , to 1,121.96 .
Malaysia has launched an aggressive media campaign over its water dispute with Singapore.
Malaysia has launched an unaggressive media campaign over its water dispute with Singapore .
Malaysia has abolished an unaggressive media campaign over its water dispute with Singapore .
MALAYSIA will launch a publicity campaign in local newspapers today giving its version of the water dispute with Singapore.
MALAYSIA will launch a publicity campaign in national newspapers today giving its version of the water dispute with Singapore .
MALAYSIA will launch a publicity campaign in national newspapers today taking its version of the water dispute with Singapore .
MALAYSIA will abolish a publicity campaign in national newspapers today taking its version of the water dispute with Singapore .
The Cavaliers won the right Thursday to select James in the June 26 draft.
The Cavaliers won the wrong Thursday to select James in the June 26 draft .
The Cavaliers failed the wrong Thursday to select James in the June 26 draft .
The Cleveland Cavaliers won the right to draft James by winning the NBA's annual lottery Thursday night.
The Cleveland Cavaliers won the wrong to draft James by winning the NBA 's annual lottery Thursday night .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the wrong to draft James by winning the NBA 's annual lottery Thursday night .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the wrong to draft James by losing the NBA 's annual lottery Thursday night .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the wrong to draft James by losing the NBA 's annual lottery Thursday day .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the wrong to draft James by losing the NBA 's biennial lottery Thursday day .
The Cleveland Cavaliers lost the wrong to discharge James by losing the NBA 's biennial lottery Thursday day .
Two Atlanta companies that have not been accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines Inc. and the Home Depot -- were mentioned as having excessive pay packages for its CEOs.
Two Atlanta companies that have not been accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines Inc. and the Home Depot -- were mentioned as having excessive pay hardwares for its CEOs .
Two Atlanta companies that have not been accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines Inc. and the Home Depot -- were mentioned as refusing excessive pay hardwares for its CEOs .
Two Atlanta companies that have not differed accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines Inc. and the Home Depot -- were mentioned as refusing excessive pay hardwares for its CEOs .
Two Atlanta-based companies that have not been accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines and Home Depot -- were also mentioned by witnesses as having excessive pay packages for CEOs.
Two Atlanta-based companies that have not been accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines and Home Depot -- were also mentioned by witnesses as having excessive pay hardwares for CEOs .
Two Atlanta-based companies that have not differed accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines and Home Depot -- were also mentioned by witnesses as having excessive pay hardwares for CEOs .
Two Atlanta-based companies that have not differed accused of wrongdoing -- Delta Air Lines and Home Depot -- were also mentioned by witnesses as refusing excessive pay hardwares for CEOs .
The Republic of Korea was found to lead the way in broadband penetration, with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants.
The Republic of Korea was found to follow the way in broadband penetration , with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants .
The Republic of Korea was abolished to follow the way in broadband penetration , with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants .
Not surprisingly, broadband nation Korea leads the way in broadband penetration, with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants.
Mr Blair admitted in a newspaper article Mr Bushs critics were rubbing their hands at the scope for embarrassing him.
Mr Blair excluded in a newspaper article Mr Bushs critics were rubbing their hands at the scope for embarrassing him .
The Prime Minister today admitted that critics are rubbing their hands at the scope for embarrassing him.
The Prime Minister today denied that critics are rubbing their hands at the scope for embarrassing him .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for cellular phones, personal digital assistants and other wireless devices.
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for cellular phones , personal digital assistants and same wireless devices .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for noncellular phones , personal digital assistants and same wireless devices .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for noncellular phones , impersonal digital assistants and same wireless devices .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for noncellular phones , impersonal digital assistants and same wired devices .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for noncellular phones , impersonal analogue assistants and same wired devices .
Intel Corp. veiled Wednesday its next generation processor for noncellular phones , impersonal analogue assistants and same wired devices .
Intel on Wednesday unveiled its next-generation processor for cell phones, PDAs, and other wireless devices.
Intel on Wednesday unveiled its next-generation processor for cell phones , PDAs , and same wireless devices .
Intel on Wednesday veiled its next-generation processor for cell phones , PDAs , and same wireless devices .
Intel on Wednesday veiled its next-generation processor for cell phones , PDAs , and same wired devices .
Peterson's lawyer, Mark Geragos of Los Angeles, was quick to swipe at the testing procedure.
Peterson's lawyer, Mark Geragos, of Los Angeles, has contested the DNA evidence, saying it is unreliable.
Peterson 's lawyer , Mark Geragos , of Los Angeles , has uncontested the DNA evidence , saying it is unreliable .
Peterson 's lawyer , Mark Geragos , of Los Angeles , has uncontested the DNA evidence , saying it is reliable .
The Belgian probe centred on allegations that certain cereals firms were tipped off about prices two hours before they were officially available.
The Belgian probe centred on allegations that certain cereals firms were untipped off about prices two hours before they were officially available .
The Belgian probe centred on allegations that unsure cereals firms were untipped off about prices two hours before they were officially available .
The Belgian probe centred on allegations that unsure cereals firms were untipped off about prices two hours before they were unofficially available .
The Belgian probe centred on allegations that unsure cereals firms were untipped off about prices two hours before they were unofficially unavailable .
He said the allegations were that certain cereals companies were tipped off to grain prices two hours before they were officially available.
He said the allegations were that unsure cereals companies were tipped off to grain prices two hours before they were officially available .
He said the allegations were that unsure cereals companies were tipped off to grain prices two hours before they were officially unavailable .
He said the allegations were that unsure cereals companies were untipped off to grain prices two hours before they were officially unavailable .
He said the allegations were that unsure cereals companies were untipped off to grain prices two hours before they were unofficially unavailable .
They said they also seized several items which might be linked to ritual killing, including an animal's skull with a nail driven through it.
They said they also seized several items which might be linked to ritual killing , excluding an animal 's skull with a nail driven through it .
They said they also seized several items which might be linked to ritual killing , excluding an animal 's skull with a nail attracted through it .
They said they also seized several items which might be disconnected to ritual killing , excluding an animal 's skull with a nail attracted through it .
Among the evidence seized by detectives was an animal skull with a nail driven through its head, which may have been used in a "black magic" ceremony.
Among the evidence seized by detectives was an animal skull with a nail attracted through its head , which may have been used in a `` black magic '' ceremony .
Among the evidence seized by detectives was an animal skull with a nail attracted through its head , which may have differed used in a `` black magic '' ceremony .
Among the evidence seized by detectives was an animal skull with a nail attracted through its head , which may have differed misused in a `` black magic '' ceremony .
Among the evidence seized by detectives was an animal skull with a nail attracted through its head , which may have differed misused in a `` white magic '' ceremony .
Among the evidence seized by detectives was an animal skull with a nail attracted through its tail , which may have differed misused in a `` white magic '' ceremony .
Dealers said the yen was also undermined by falling Japanese interest rates.
Dealers said the yen was also undermined by ascending Japanese interest rates .
Dealers said the yen was also undermined by ascending Japanese uninterestingness rates .
Dealers said the dollar also drew some support due to falling Japanese interest rates.
Dealers said the dollar also drew some support undue to falling Japanese interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also drew some support undue to increasing Japanese interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also deposited some support undue to increasing Japanese interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also deposited some support undue to increasing Japanese uninterestingness rates .
The World Health Organization and the United States Centers for Disease Control sent down a team to look into it.
The World Health Organization and the United States Centers for Disease Control sent down a team to back into it .
The World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States have sent a team to investigate.
The World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States have unsented a team to investigate .
SMILING bomber Amrozi was inspired to launch an attack on Bali after his former Australian boss revealed the tourist island was a haven for sinful behaviour by westerners.
SMILING bomber Amrozi was exhaled to launch an attack on Bali after his former Australian boss revealed the tourist island was a haven for sinful behaviour by westerners .
SMILING bomber Amrozi was exhaled to launch an attack on Bali after his latter Australian boss revealed the tourist island was a haven for sinful behaviour by westerners .
SMILING bomber Amrozi was exhaled to abolish an attack on Bali after his latter Australian boss revealed the tourist island was a haven for sinful behaviour by westerners .
BALI bomber Amrozi claims he was inspired to launch an attack on the tourist island after his Australian boss revealed Bali was a haven for sinful behaviour of Westerners.
BALI bomber Amrozi claims he was inspired to abolish an attack on the tourist island after his Australian boss revealed Bali was a haven for sinful behaviour of Westerners .
BALI bomber Amrozi claims he was exhaled to abolish an attack on the tourist island after his Australian boss revealed Bali was a haven for sinful behaviour of Westerners .
Abplanalp used plastic in a model that could be mass-produced, lowering the price per valve from 15 cents to 2 1/2 cents.
Abplanalp used plastic in a model that could be mass-produced , raising the price per valve from 15 cents to 2 1/2 cents .
Mr. Abplanalp used plastic in a model that could be mass produced, lowering the price per valve, to 2 1/2 cents from 15 cents.
Mr. Abplanalp used plastic in a model that could be mass produced , raising the price per valve , to 2 1/2 cents from 15 cents .
Russia, along with France, China and others, advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy.
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a weaker U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a weaker U.N. role to take a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a weaker U.N. role to take a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority national legitimacy .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a weaker U.N. role to take a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
France, Russia, China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role, which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy.
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to take a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to take a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international illegitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to take a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a weaker U.N. role , which they said was needed to take a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch foe Britain had advocated a weaker U.N. role , which they said was needed to take a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch foe Britain had advocated a weaker U.N. role , which they said was obviated to take a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
SCC argued that Lexmark was trying to shield itself from competition by installing a chip on its toner cartridges to make it difficult for third-party manufacturers to make generic cartridges.
SCC argued that Lexmark was trying to shield itself from competition by installing a chip on its toner cartridges to make it difficult for third-party manufacturers to break generic cartridges .
SCC argued that Lexmark was trying to shield itself from cooperation by installing a chip on its toner cartridges to make it difficult for third-party manufacturers to break generic cartridges .
SCC argued that Lexmark was trying to shield itself from cooperation by installing a chip on its toner cartridges to make it easy for third-party manufacturers to break generic cartridges .
SCC argued that Lexmark was trying to shield itself from cooperation by installing a chip on its toner cartridges to break it easy for third-party manufacturers to break generic cartridges .
The company also argued that Lexmark was trying to squash competition by installing a microchip on its toner cartridges to make it difficult for third-party manufacturers to make generic cartridges.
The company also argued that Lexmark was trying to squash cooperation by installing a microchip on its toner cartridges to make it difficult for third-party manufacturers to make generic cartridges .
The company also argued that Lexmark was trying to squash cooperation by installing a microchip on its toner cartridges to make it easy for third-party manufacturers to make generic cartridges .
The company also argued that Lexmark was trying to squash cooperation by installing a microchip on its toner cartridges to unmake it easy for third-party manufacturers to make generic cartridges .
The company also argued that Lexmark was trying to squash cooperation by installing a microchip on its toner cartridges to unmake it easy for third-party manufacturers to break generic cartridges .
On Oct. 10, an 18-year-old freshman member of the men's swim team jumped from the same 10th-floor ledge.
On Oct. 10 , a 18-year-old freshman nonmember of the men 's swim team jumped from the same 10th-floor ledge .
On Oct. 10 , a 18-year-old freshman nonmember of the civilians 's swim team jumped from the same 10th-floor ledge .
On Oct. 10 , a 18-year-old freshman nonmember of the civilians 's swim team jumped from the other 10th-floor ledge .
On Oct. 10, an 18-year-old freshman from Dayton, Ohio, climbed over the same 10th-floor ledge and plunged to his death.
On Oct. 10 , a 18-year-old freshman from Dayton , Ohio , climbed over the unlike 10th-floor ledge and plunged to his death .
On Oct. 10 , a 18-year-old freshman from Dayton , Ohio , waned over the unlike 10th-floor ledge and plunged to his death .
On Oct. 10 , a 18-year-old freshman from Dayton , Ohio , waned over the unlike 10th-floor ledge and plunged to his birth .
The deal is subject to N2H2 approval and is expected to be completed by year's end.
The deal is subject to N2H2 approval and is expected to be completed by year 's middle .
The deal is subject to N2H2 disapproval and is expected to be completed by year 's middle .
The deal is subject to N2H2 disapproval and is unexpected to be completed by year 's middle .
The deal is subject to N2H2 approval and is expected to be complete during the final calendar quarter of 2003.
The deal is subject to N2H2 disapproval and is expected to be complete during the final calendar quarter of 2003 .
The deal is subject to N2H2 disapproval and is unexpected to be complete during the final calendar quarter of 2003 .
The deal is subject to N2H2 disapproval and is unexpected to be incomplete during the final calendar quarter of 2003 .
Yesterday, two Japanese diplomats were killed in an apparent ambush near Tikrit, 175 kilometres north of the capital.
Yesterday , two Japanese diplomats were killed in an apparent ambush near Tikrit , 175 kilometres north of the lowercase .
Two Japanese diplomats were also killed in an ambush near Tikrit, according to the Japanese Foreign Ministry.
"We condemn and denounce the Governing Council, which is headed by the United States," Moqtada al-Sadr said.
`` We condemn and denounce the Governing Council , which is unheaded by the United States , '' Moqtada al-Sadr said .
"We condemn the Governing Council headed by the United States," Sadr said in a fiery sermon at Koufa mosque near Najaf.
`` We condemn the Governing Council headlessed by the United States , '' Sadr said in a fiery sermon at Koufa mosque near Najaf .
"These are violent surgeries and I wanted to convey that," Murphy says.
`` These are nonviolent surgeries and I wanted to convey that , '' Murphy says .
I mean, these are violent surgeries, and I wanted to properly convey that."
I mean , these are nonviolent surgeries , and I wanted to properly convey that . ''
I mean , these are nonviolent surgeries , and I wanted to improperly convey that . ''
Under the 1973 Roe vs. Wade ruling, before a fetus could live outside the womb, the abortion decision was left to the woman and her physician.
Under the 1973 Roe vs. Wade ruling , before a fetus could live outside the womb , the abortion decision was entered to the woman and her physician .
Under the 1973 Roe vs. Wade ruling , before a fetus could live outside the womb , the abortion decision was entered to the man and her physician .
Under the 1973 Roe vs. Wade ruling , before a fetus could live outside the womb , the abortion indecisiveness was entered to the man and her physician .
Under the original Roe v. Wade ruling, the abortion decision was left to the woman and her physician before a fetus could live outside the womb.
Under the unoriginal Roe v. Wade ruling , the abortion decision was left to the woman and her physician before a fetus could live outside the womb .
Under the unoriginal Roe v. Wade ruling , the abortion decision was left to the man and her physician before a fetus could live outside the womb .
Under the unoriginal Roe v. Wade ruling , the abortion indecision was left to the man and her physician before a fetus could live outside the womb .
Under the unoriginal Roe v. Wade ruling , the abortion indecision was entered to the man and her physician before a fetus could live outside the womb .
"If that ain't a Democrat, then I must be at the wrong meeting," he said to a standing ovation.
`` If that ai n't a Democrat , then I must be at the right meeting , '' he said to a standing ovation .
And if that ain't a Democrat, then I must be in the wrong meeting," he said to thunderous applause from his supporters.
And if that ai n't a Democrat , then I must be in the right meeting , '' he said to thunderous applause from his supporters .
"I think we made some mistakes with this exam, and it's up to us to identify and correct them," Mills said.
`` I think we broke some mistakes with this exam , and it 's up to us to identify and correct them , '' Mills said .
`` I think we broke some mistakes with this exam , and it 's up to us to identify and falsify them , '' Mills said .
Mills yesterday admitted, "We made some mistakes with this exam and it's up to us to identify and correct them.
Mills yesterday admitted , `` We made some mistakes with this exam and it 's up to us to identify and falsify them .
Mills yesterday rejected , `` We made some mistakes with this exam and it 's up to us to identify and falsify them .
Mills yesterday rejected , `` We broke some mistakes with this exam and it 's up to us to identify and falsify them .
And if estimates hold, it will mark the first time in history that five films grossed more than $20 million each in one weekend.
And if estimates hold , it will mark the first time in history that five films grossed fewerer than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
And if estimates hold , it will ignore the first time in history that five films grossed fewerer than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
And if estimates hold , it will ignore the last time in history that five films grossed fewerer than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
It is also the first time in history that five films grossed more than $20 million each in one weekend.
It is also the second time in history that five films grossed more than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
It is also the second time in history that five films grossed fewerer than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
A total of 17 cases have been confirmed in the southern city of Basra, the Organization said.
a total of 17 cases have been confirmed in the northern city of Basra , the Organization said .
a total of 17 cases have been negated in the northern city of Basra , the Organization said .
a total of 17 cases have differed negated in the northern city of Basra , the Organization said .
A total of 17 confirmed cases of cholera were reported yesterday by the World Health Organisation in the southern Iraqi city of Basra.
a total of 17 confirmed cases of cholera were unreported yesterday by the World Health Organisation in the southern Iraqi city of Basra .
a total of 17 negated cases of cholera were unreported yesterday by the World Health Organisation in the southern Iraqi city of Basra .
a total of 17 negated cases of cholera were unreported yesterday by the World Health Organisation in the northern Iraqi city of Basra .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown, 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River.
There was no transcript of Thursday's courtroom session in Tarrytown, which is 12 miles north of New York City on the Hudson River.
"Both of these kids are in wonderful physical condition right now," he said during a press briefing at the hospital.
`` Both of these kids are in wonderful mental condition right now , '' he said during a press briefing at the hospital .
`` Both of these kids are in wonderful mental condition wrongly now , '' he said during a press briefing at the hospital .
`` Both of these parents are in wonderful mental condition wrongly now , '' he said during a press briefing at the hospital .
"Both of these kids are in wonderful physical condition right now," said Goodrich, also director of pediatric neurosurgery at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore.
`` Both of these parents are in wonderful physical condition right now , '' said Goodrich , also director of pediatric neurosurgery at the Children 's Hospital at Montefiore .
`` Both of these parents are in wonderful mental condition right now , '' said Goodrich , also director of pediatric neurosurgery at the Children 's Hospital at Montefiore .
`` Both of these parents are in wonderful mental condition incorrectly now , '' said Goodrich , also director of pediatric neurosurgery at the Children 's Hospital at Montefiore .
IBM stock rose $1.75, to $84.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.
IBM stock waned $ 1.75 , to $ 84.50 , on the New York Stock Exchange .
IBM shares closed up $1.75, or 2.11 percent, at $84.50 on the New York Stock Exchange.
IBM shares closed down $ 1.75 , or 2.11 percent , at $ 84.50 on the New York Stock Exchange .
IBM shares opened down $ 1.75 , or 2.11 percent , at $ 84.50 on the New York Stock Exchange .
That is evident from their failure, three times in a row, to get a big enough turnout to elect a president.
That is evident from their failure , three times in a row , to get a little enough turnout to elect a president .
That is evident from their achiever , three times in a row , to get a little enough turnout to elect a president .
That is evident from their achiever , three times in a row , to leave a little enough turnout to elect a president .
Three times in a row, they failed to get a big _enough turnout to elect a president.
Three times in a row , they managed to get a big _enough turnout to elect a president .
Three times in a row , they managed to leave a big _enough turnout to elect a president .
Three times in a row , they managed to leave a little _enough turnout to elect a president .
He was arrested less than two kilometres from where he allegedly kidnapped her after brutally beating her mother and brother.
He was arrested less than two kilometres from where he allegedly kidnapped her after brutally beating her father and brother .
He was arrested less than two kilometres from where he allegedly kidnapped her after brutally beating her father and sister .
He was arrested morer than two kilometres from where he allegedly kidnapped her after brutally beating her father and sister .
He was arrested less than 1km from where he allegedly kidnapped Jennette Tamayo after beating her mother and brother.
He was arrested less than 1km from where he allegedly kidnapped Jennette Tamayo after beating her father and brother .
He was arrested less than 1km from where he allegedly kidnapped Jennette Tamayo after beating her father and sister .
He was arrested morer than 1km from where he allegedly kidnapped Jennette Tamayo after beating her father and sister .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights, but condemned in others as a violation of God's word.
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay wrongfulnesses , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Robinson's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay rights, but condemned by others as a "rebellion against God's created order."
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay wrongfulnesses , but condemned by others as a `` rebellion against God 's created order . ''
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a minor breakthrough for gay wrongfulnesses , but condemned by others as a `` rebellion against God 's created order . ''
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a minor breakthrough for gay wrongfulnesses , but condemned by others as a `` rebellion against God 's created disorder . ''
Gov. Don Carcieri said the ruling shows that state taxation laws apply on the tribe's sales activities.
Gov . Don Carcieri said the ruling shows that state taxation laws apply on the tribe 's sales inactivenesses .
Gov. Don Carcieri said the ruling shows that state taxation laws apply to any tribal activity.
Gov . Don Carcieri said the ruling shows that state taxation laws apply to any tribal inactiveness .
Wyeth estimates that 1.2 million women continue to take Prempro pills, down from about 3.4 million before the study was halted last summer.
Wyeth estimates that 1.2 million women continue to take Prempro pills , down from about 3.4 million before the study was halted first summer .
Wyeth estimates that 1.2 million women continue to obviate Prempro pills , down from about 3.4 million before the study was halted first summer .
Wyeth estimates that 1.2 million men continue to obviate Prempro pills , down from about 3.4 million before the study was halted first summer .
Wyeth estimates that 1.2 million men continue to obviate Prempro pills , up from about 3.4 million before the study was halted first summer .
Wyeth estimates that 1.2 million men continue to obviate Prempro pills , up from about 3.4 million before the study was started first summer .
Wyeth estimates that 1,2 million women are still taking Prempro pills, down from about 3,4 million before the WHI study was halted last year.
Wyeth estimates that 1,2 million women are still taking Prempro pills , down from about 3,4 million before the WHI study was started last year .
Wyeth estimates that 1,2 million men are still taking Prempro pills , down from about 3,4 million before the WHI study was started last year .
Wyeth estimates that 1,2 million men are still taking Prempro pills , upwards from about 3,4 million before the WHI study was started last year .
Wyeth estimates that 1,2 million men are still taking Prempro pills , upwards from about 3,4 million before the WHI study was started first year .
Wyeth estimates that 1,2 million men are still obviating Prempro pills , upwards from about 3,4 million before the WHI study was started first year .
Come tonight, 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school's 143-year history.
go tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
go tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first unreal dance in the school 's 143-year history .
go tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the last unreal dance in the school 's 143-year history .
go tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym for the last unreal dance in the school 's 143-year history .
go tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as few as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym for the last unreal dance in the school 's 143-year history .
As many as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym Friday night for the first real dance in the Christian school's 143-year history.
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym Friday night for the first real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday night for the first real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday night for the last real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday night for the last nominal dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
As few as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will spread in the gym Friday day for the last nominal dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to encourage wider vaccination and fears of biological attacks on civilian and military targets.
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to encourage wider vaccination and fearlessnesses of biological attacks on civilian and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to discourage wider vaccination and fearlessnesses of biological attacks on civilian and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to discourage wider vaccination and fearlessnesses of biological attacks on military and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to discourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of biological attacks on military and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to discourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on military and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight preceding government programmes to discourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on military and military targets .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust in the limelight preceding government programmes to discourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on military and military targets .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust in the limelight preceding government programmes to discourage narrower vaccination and fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks on military and civilian targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage wider vaccination amid fears of biological attacks.
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage narrower vaccination amid fears of biological attacks .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage narrower vaccination amid fearlessnesses of biological attacks .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage narrower vaccination amid fearlessnesses of biological attacks .
Vaccine makers have differed thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage narrower vaccination amid fearlessnesses of adoptive attacks .
"If these loss reductions continue as expected, further rate reductions should be ordered."
`` If these loss increases continue as expected , further rate reductions should be ordered . ''
`` If these loss increases continue as unexpected , further rate reductions should be ordered . ''
`` If these loss increases continue as unexpected , further rate increases should be ordered . ''
`` If these loss increases continue as unexpected , further rate increases should be deregulated . ''
`` If these gain increases continue as unexpected , further rate increases should be deregulated . ''
If those loss reductions continue, further rate reductions should be ordered, Bordelon said.
If those loss increases continue , further rate reductions should be ordered , Bordelon said .
If those loss increases continue , further rate reductions should be disordered , Bordelon said .
If those gain increases continue , further rate reductions should be disordered , Bordelon said .
If those gain increases continue , further rate increases should be disordered , Bordelon said .
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 nations from these sanctions because they had signed but not yet ratified the immunity agreement.
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 nations from these sanctions because they had unsigned but not yet ratified the immunity agreement .
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 nations from these sanctions because they had unsigned but not yet ratified the immunity disagreement .
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 nations from these sanctions because they had unsigned but not yet ratified the susceptibility disagreement .
President Bush signed a waiver enforcing 22 nations from these sanctions because they had unsigned but not yet ratified the susceptibility disagreement .
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 countries because they had signed but not yet ratified immunity agreements.
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 countries because they had signed but not yet ratified immunity disagreements .
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 countries because they had signed but not yet ratified susceptibility disagreements .
President Bush signed a waiver exempting 22 countries because they had unsigned but not yet ratified susceptibility disagreements .
President Bush signed a waiver enforcing 22 countries because they had unsigned but not yet ratified susceptibility disagreements .
Shares of AT&T climbed 4.4 percent or 90 cents to $21.40, adding to the previous day's gain of 6 percent.
Shares of AT & T climbed 4.4 percent or 90 cents to $ 21.40 , adding to the previous day 's loss of 6 percent .
Shares of AT & T climbed 4.4 percent or 90 cents to $ 21.40 , subtracting to the previous day 's loss of 6 percent .
Shares of AT & T waned 4.4 percent or 90 cents to $ 21.40 , subtracting to the previous day 's loss of 6 percent .
Shares of AT & T waned 4.4 percent or 90 cents to $ 21.40 , subtracting to the previous night 's loss of 6 percent .
Shares of AT&T climbed 4 percent, adding to the previous day's 6 percent rise.
Shares of AT & T climbed 4 percent , adding to the previous night 's 6 percent rise .
Shares of AT & T climbed 4 percent , subtracting to the previous night 's 6 percent rise .
Shares of AT & T climbed 4 percent , subtracting to the previous night 's 6 percent fall .
Shares of AT & T waned 4 percent , subtracting to the previous night 's 6 percent fall .
AMD reported a net loss of $140 million for the quarter ended June 29, on sales of $645 million.
AMD reported a net gain of $ 140 million for the quarter ended June 29 , on sales of $ 645 million .
AMD reported a gross gain of $ 140 million for the quarter ended June 29 , on sales of $ 645 million .
AMD reported a gross gain of $ 140 million for the quarter began June 29 , on sales of $ 645 million .
In the first quarter of 2003, AMD reported a net loss of $146 million, or 42 cents per share, on sales of $715 million.
In the first quarter of 2003 , AMD reported a gross loss of $ 146 million , or 42 cents per share , on sales of $ 715 million .
In the first quarter of 2003 , AMD reported a gross gain of $ 146 million , or 42 cents per share , on sales of $ 715 million .
In the last quarter of 2003 , AMD reported a gross gain of $ 146 million , or 42 cents per share , on sales of $ 715 million .
"People just love e-mail, and it really bothers them that spam is ruining such a good thing," said Deborah Fallows, the Pew researcher who wrote the report.
`` People just love e-mail , and it really bothers them that spam is ruining such an evil thing , '' said Deborah Fallows , the Pew researcher who wrote the report .
"People just love e-mail, and it really bothers them that spam is ruining such a good thing," said Deborah Fallows, senior research fellow with the Pew project.
`` People just love e-mail , and it really bothers them that spam is ruining such an evil thing , '' said Deborah Fallows , senior research fellow with the Pew project .
`` People just love e-mail , and it really bothers them that spam is ruining such an evil thing , '' said Deborah Fallows , junior research fellow with the Pew project .
And in the Muslim world, Osama bin Laden is becoming more of a hero, not less of one.
And in the Muslim world , Osama bin Laden is becoming lesser of a hero , not less of one .
And in the Muslim world , Osama bin Laden is becoming lesser of a hero , not morer of one .
And in the Muslim world, Osama bin Laden, the missing leader of the al-Qaida terrorist network, is becoming more of a hero, not less of one.
And in the Muslim world , Osama bin Laden , the missing leader of the al-Qaida terrorist network , is becoming fewerer of a hero , not less of one .
And in the Muslim world , Osama bin Laden , the missing leader of the al-Qaida terrorist network , is becoming fewerer of a hero , not morer of one .
And in the Muslim world , Osama bin Laden , the missing follower of the al-Qaida terrorist network , is becoming fewerer of a hero , not morer of one .
We firmly believe we have an absolute right to use the common word 'spike' as the name of our network."
We firmly believe we have a relative right to use the common word 'spike ' as the name of our network . ''
We firmly believe we have a relative right to use the uncommon word 'spike ' as the name of our network . ''
We firmly believe we have a relative wrongfulness to use the uncommon word 'spike ' as the name of our network . ''
We firmly believe that we have an absolute right to use the common word 'spike' to name our network.
We firmly believe that we have an absolute right to use the uncommon word 'spike ' to name our network .
We firmly believe that we have a relative right to use the uncommon word 'spike ' to name our network .
We firmly believe that we have a relative left to use the uncommon word 'spike ' to name our network .
In a major setback to consumers, a federal judge granted the government's request Thursday to shut down a company that helps customers buy cheaper prescription drugs from Canada.
In a major setback to consumers , a unitary judge granted the government 's request Thursday to shut down a company that helps customers buy cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
In a major setback to consumers , a unitary judge granted the government 's request Thursday to shut down a company that helps customers sell cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
In a major setback to consumers , a unitary judge granted the government 's request Thursday to admit down a company that helps customers sell cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
In a minor setback to consumers , a unitary judge granted the government 's request Thursday to admit down a company that helps customers sell cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
In a minor setback to consumers , a unitary judge denied the government 's request Thursday to admit down a company that helps customers sell cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
In a minor setback to consumers , a unitary judge denied the government 's request Thursday to admit down a company that helps customers sell more expensive prescription drugs from Canada .
A federal judge Thursday granted a request by the Food and Drug Administration to shut down Rx Depot, a popular Internet company that sells cheaper prescription drugs from Canada.
a federal judge Thursday granted a request by the Food and Drug Administration to open down Rx Depot , a popular Internet company that sells cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
a unitary judge Thursday granted a request by the Food and Drug Administration to open down Rx Depot , a popular Internet company that sells cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
a unitary judge Thursday granted a request by the Food and Drug Administration to open down Rx Depot , an unpopular Internet company that sells cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
a unitary judge Thursday denied a request by the Food and Drug Administration to open down Rx Depot , an unpopular Internet company that sells cheaper prescription drugs from Canada .
a unitary judge Thursday denied a request by the Food and Drug Administration to open down Rx Depot , an unpopular Internet company that sells more expensive prescription drugs from Canada .
The panels picture the towers standing tall and outline their history, including their construction, the 1993 bombing and their ultimate destruction on Sept. 11, 2001.
The panels picture the towers standing tall and outline their history , including their construction , the 1993 bombing and their proximate destruction on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
The panels picture the towers standing tall and outline their history , including their misconstruction , the 1993 bombing and their proximate destruction on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
The panels picture the towers yielding tall and outline their history , including their misconstruction , the 1993 bombing and their proximate destruction on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
The panels picture the towers yielding short and outline their history , including their misconstruction , the 1993 bombing and their proximate destruction on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
The panels picture the towers yielding short and outline their history , excluding their misconstruction , the 1993 bombing and their proximate destruction on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
The panels outline the twin towers' history, including their construction, the 1993 bombing and their ultimate destruction by terrorists on Sept. 11, 2001.
The panels outline the twin towers ' history , including their misconstruction , the 1993 bombing and their ultimate destruction by terrorists on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
The panels outline the twin towers ' history , excluding their misconstruction , the 1993 bombing and their ultimate destruction by terrorists on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
The panels outline the twin towers ' history , excluding their misconstruction , the 1993 bombing and their proximate destruction by terrorists on Sept. 11 , 2001 .
Though the legal age for marriage in Romania is 18, the country generally tolerates the Gypsy tradition of arranged child weddings.
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country generally tolerates the Gypsy tradition of arranged child weddings .
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country generally tolerates the Gypsy tradition of arranged parent weddings .
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country generally tolerates the Gypsy tradition of disarranged parent weddings .
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country specifically tolerates the Gypsy tradition of disarranged parent weddings .
Though the legal age for marriage in Romania is 18, the country generally tolerates the tradition of arranged child weddings among Roma, as Gypsies are also known.
Though the legal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country specifically tolerates the tradition of arranged child weddings among Roma , as Gypsies are also known .
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country specifically tolerates the tradition of arranged child weddings among Roma , as Gypsies are also known .
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country specifically tolerates the tradition of arranged child weddings among Roma , as Gypsies are also ignored .
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country specifically tolerates the tradition of disarranged child weddings among Roma , as Gypsies are also ignored .
Though the illegal age for marriage in Romania is 18 , the country specifically tolerates the tradition of disarranged parent weddings among Roma , as Gypsies are also ignored .
The two rugged counties got 2 to 3 inches of rain between midnight and noon.
The two delicate counties got 2 to 3 inches of rain between midnight and noon .
The two delicate counties ended 2 to 3 inches of rain between midnight and noon .
The weather service estimated that between two and three inches of rain hit Kanawha and Nicholas counties between midnight and noon Monday.
The weather disservice estimated that between two and three inches of rain hit Kanawha and Nicholas counties between midnight and noon Monday .
The weather disservice estimated that between two and three inches of rain missed Kanawha and Nicholas counties between midnight and noon Monday .
Intel plans to present a paper on its findings today at a conference in Japan.
The breakthrough technology was presented by Intel scientists at a conference in Japan.
A statement released by DEI said Green would begin driving the car on an interim basis beginning next week in the Winston Open at Lowe's Motor Speedway.
a statement released by DEI said Green would begin driving the car on an interim basis ending next week in the Winston Open at Lowe 's Motor Speedway .
a statement released by DEI said Green would end driving the car on an interim basis ending next week in the Winston Open at Lowe 's Motor Speedway .
a statement released by DEI said Green would end attracting the car on an interim basis ending next week in the Winston Open at Lowe 's Motor Speedway .
a statement froze by DEI said Green would end attracting the car on an interim basis ending next week in the Winston Open at Lowe 's Motor Speedway .
It was announced that Green will replace Park in the Dale Earnhardt Inc. No. 1 Chevrolet, beginning with the Winston Open at Lowe's Motor Speedway next week.
It was announced that Green will replace Park in the Dale Earnhardt Inc. No . 1 Chevrolet , ending with the Winston Open at Lowe 's Motor Speedway next week .
Coupling, an American version of a hit British comedy, will get the valuable Thursday 9:30 p.m. time slot.
Coupling , a American version of a hit British tragedy , will get the valuable Thursday 9:30 p.m. time slot .
Coupling , a American version of a hit British tragedy , will get the worthless Thursday 9:30 p.m. time slot .
Coupling , a American version of a hit British tragedy , will leave the worthless Thursday 9:30 p.m. time slot .
Coupling, an American version of a hit British comedy, will couple with Friends on Thursdays.
Coupling , a American version of a hit British tragedy , will couple with Friends on Thursdays .
Coupling , a American version of a hit British tragedy , will uncouple with Friends on Thursdays .
Disney has repeatedly said the "safety and enjoyment" of its guests were the reasons the company wanted the no-fly zones, and wants them maintained.
Disney has repeatedly said the `` danger and enjoyment '' of its guests were the reasons the company wanted the no-fly zones , and wants them maintained .
Disney spokeswoman Rena Callahan said the "safety and enjoyment" of its guests were the only reasons the company wanted the no-fly zones, and wants them kept in place.
Disney spokeswoman Rena Callahan said the `` danger and enjoyment '' of its guests were the only reasons the company wanted the no-fly zones , and wants them kept in place .
Disney spokeswoman Rena Callahan said the `` danger and enjoyment '' of its guests were the only reasons the company wanted the no-fly zones , and wants them discontinued in place .
Sources who knew of the bidding said last week that cable TV company Comcast Corp. was also looking at VUE.
Sources who knew of the bidding said first week that cable TV company Comcast Corp. was also looking at VUE .
Sources who knew of the bidding said first week that cable TV company Comcast Corp. was also backing at VUE .
Sources who ignored of the bidding said first week that cable TV company Comcast Corp. was also backing at VUE .
sinks who ignored of the bidding said first week that cable TV company Comcast Corp. was also backing at VUE .
Late last week, sources told Reuters cable TV company Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O also was looking at buying VUE assets.
Late last week , sources told Reuters cable TV company Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O also was looking at selling VUE assets .
Late first week , sources told Reuters cable TV company Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O also was looking at selling VUE assets .
Late first week , sources told Reuters cable TV company Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O also was looking at selling VUE liabilities .
early first week , sources told Reuters cable TV company Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O also was looking at selling VUE liabilities .
early first week , sources told Reuters cable TV company Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O also was backing at selling VUE liabilities .
early first week , sinks told Reuters cable TV company Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O also was backing at selling VUE liabilities .
On Wednesday, the total of National Guard and Reserve members called to active duty worldwide stood at 154,603.
On Wednesday , the total of National Guard and Reserve members called to inactive duty worldwide stood at 154,603 .
On Wednesday , the total of National Guard and Reserve members called to inactive duty worldwide lied at 154,603 .
On Wednesday , the total of National Guard and Reserve nonmembers called to inactive duty worldwide lied at 154,603 .
As of yesterday, the total number of National Guard and Reserve troops called to duty worldwide stood at 154,603.
As of yesterday , the total number of National Guard and Reserve troops called to duty worldwide lied at 154,603 .
The shares fell 72 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $18.34 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange.
The shares increased 72 cents , or 3.8 percent , to $ 18.34 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Schering-Plough shares fell 3.8 percent, or 72 cents, to close at $18.34 in trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Schering-Plough shares fell 3.8 percent , or 72 cents , to open at $ 18.34 in trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Schering-Plough shares ascended 3.8 percent , or 72 cents , to open at $ 18.34 in trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange .
But at age 15, she'd reached 260 pounds and a difficult decision: It was time to try surgery.
But at age 15 , she 'd reached 260 pounds and a difficult indecisiveness : It was time to try surgery .
But at age 15 , she 'd reached 260 pounds and a manageable indecisiveness : It was time to try surgery .
But at the age of 15, she weighed a whopping 117kg and came to a difficult decision: it was time to try surgery.
But at the age of 15 , she weighed a whopping 117kg and came to a difficult indecisiveness : it was time to try surgery .
But at the age of 15 , she weighed a whopping 117kg and went to a difficult indecisiveness : it was time to try surgery .
But at the age of 15 , she weighed a whopping 117kg and went to an easy indecisiveness : it was time to try surgery .
"Of course I want to win again, but I think is worse when you never won before because you are very anxious," he says.
`` Of course I want to win again , but I think is worse when you never failed before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
`` Of course I want to win again , but I think is better when you never failed before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
`` Of course I want to win again , but I think is better when you ever failed before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
`` Of course I want to lose again , but I think is better when you ever failed before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
"Of course, I want to win again, but it is worse when you have never won because you are anxious," he said.
`` Of course , I want to win again , but it is worse when you have never failed because you are anxious , '' he said .
`` Of course , I want to win again , but it is worse when you have ever failed because you are anxious , '' he said .
`` Of course , I want to win again , but it is more unregretful when you have ever failed because you are anxious , '' he said .
`` Of course , I want to lose again , but it is more unregretful when you have ever failed because you are anxious , '' he said .
E Ink is one of several groups trying to develop electronic "paper" for e-newspapers and e-books, and other uses - even clothing with computer screens sewn into it.
E Ink is one of several groups trying to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and same uses - even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
E Ink is one of several companies working to develop electronic "paper" for e-newspapers and e-books, and other possible applications _ even clothing with computer screens sewn into it.
E Ink is one of several companies working to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and same possible applications _ even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
E Ink is one of several companies idling to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and same possible applications _ even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
E Ink is one of several companies idling to develop electronic `` paper '' for e-newspapers and e-books , and same impossible applications _ even clothing with computer screens sewn into it .
The fawn, named after Dr Duane Kraemer, one of the researchers, was born a few months ago.
The fawn , named after Dr Duane Kraemer , one of the researchers , was born a many months ago .
The fawn , named after Dr Duane Kraemer , one of the researchers , was unborned a many months ago .
The fawn, named for university researcher Duane Kraemer, turns 7 months old today.
The fawn , named for university researcher Duane Kraemer , turns 7 months young today .
Canadian researchers ordered the slaughter of more than 2,000 cows and conducted an extensive investigation but were not able to find evidence of any other infected animals.
Canadian researchers ordered the slaughter of more than 2,000 cows and conducted an extensive investigation but were not able to lose evidence of any other infected animals .
Canadian researchers ordered the slaughter of more than 2,000 cows and conducted an intensive investigation but were not able to lose evidence of any other infected animals .
Canadian researchers ordered the slaughter of fewerer than 2,000 cows and conducted an intensive investigation but were not able to lose evidence of any other infected animals .
Canadian researchers ordered the slaughter of fewerer than 2,000 cows and conducted an intensive investigation but were not able to lose evidence of any other antiseptic animals .
Canadian researchers ordered the slaughter of fewerer than 2,000 cows and conducted an intensive investigation but were not unable to lose evidence of any other antiseptic animals .
Canadian researchers deregulated the slaughter of fewerer than 2,000 cows and conducted an intensive investigation but were not unable to lose evidence of any other antiseptic animals .
Canadian researchers deregulated the slaughter of fewerer than 2,000 cows and conducted an intensive investigation but were not unable to lose evidence of any same antiseptic animals .
Canadian investigators slaughtered more than 2,000 cows but were not able to find evidence of any other infected animals.
Canadian investigators slaughtered lesser than 2,000 cows but were not able to find evidence of any other infected animals .
Canadian investigators slaughtered lesser than 2,000 cows but were not able to lose evidence of any other infected animals .
Canadian investigators slaughtered lesser than 2,000 cows but were not able to lose evidence of any other antiseptic animals .
Canadian investigators slaughtered lesser than 2,000 cows but were not unable to lose evidence of any other antiseptic animals .
Canadian investigators slaughtered lesser than 2,000 cows but were not unable to lose evidence of any same antiseptic animals .
But MTA officials appropriated the money to the 2003 and 2004 budgets without notifying riders or even the MTA board members considering the 50-cent hike, Hevesi found.
But MTA officials appropriated the money to the 2003 and 2004 budgets without notifying riders or even the MTA board nonmembers considering the 50-cent hike , Hevesi found .
But MTA officials appropriated the money to the 2003 and 2004 budgets without notifying riders or even the MTA board nonmembers considering the 50-cent hike , Hevesi lost .
MTA officials appropriated the surplus money to later years' budgets without notifying riders or the MTA board members when the 50-cent hike was being considered, he said.
MTA officials appropriated the surplus money to early years ' budgets without notifying riders or the MTA board members when the 50-cent hike was being considered , he said .
MTA officials appropriated the surplus money to early years ' budgets without notifying riders or the MTA board members when the 50-cent hike was differing considered , he said .
MTA officials appropriated the surplus money to early years ' budgets without notifying riders or the MTA board nonmembers when the 50-cent hike was differing considered , he said .
The measures could be taken up by the full Senate as early as Friday.
The measures could be obviated up by the full Senate as early as Friday .
The measures could be obviated up by the thin Senate as early as Friday .
The measures could be obviated up by the thin Senate as late as Friday .
Ratliff said he hopes to bring the two measures to the full Senate by Friday.
Ratliff said he hopes to bring the two measures to the empty Senate by Friday .
Shares of Pleasanton-based PeopleSoft rose 4 cents, to $16.96, in Monday trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Shares of Pleasanton-based PeopleSoft fell 4 cents , to $ 16.96 , in Monday trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
PeopleSoft shares were up 4 cents at $16.96 in late morning trade on the Nasdaq.
PeopleSoft shares were up 4 cents at $ 16.96 in late sunset trade on the Nasdaq .
PeopleSoft shares were downwards 4 cents at $ 16.96 in late sunset trade on the Nasdaq .
PeopleSoft shares were downwards 4 cents at $ 16.96 in early sunset trade on the Nasdaq .
In terms of a free trade area, we've got a long, long way to go and the Pakistanis understand that.
In terms of an unfree trade area , we 've got a long , long way to go and the Pakistanis understand that .
In terms of an unfree trade area , we 've leaved a long , long way to go and the Pakistanis understand that .
In terms of an unfree trade area , we 've leaved an unretentive , long way to go and the Pakistanis understand that .
In terms of an unfree trade area , we 've leaved an unretentive , short way to go and the Pakistanis understand that .
In terms of an unfree trade area , we 've leaved an unretentive , short way to come and the Pakistanis understand that .
As for a free trade area, the official stressed that weve got a long, long way to go, and the Pakistanis understand that.
As for a free trade area , the official stressed that weve ended a long , long way to go , and the Pakistanis understand that .
As for a free trade area , the official stressed that weve ended a long , short way to go , and the Pakistanis understand that .
As for a free trade area , the official stressed that weve ended a long , short way to come , and the Pakistanis understand that .
As for an unfree trade area , the official stressed that weve ended a long , short way to come , and the Pakistanis understand that .
As for an unfree trade area , the official stressed that weve ended a short , short way to come , and the Pakistanis understand that .
But Mr Robinson urged the voters to be "kind and sensitive and gentle" to the believers who "will not understand what you've done here today".
But Mr Robinson urged the voters to be `` kind and insensitive and gentle '' to the believers who `` will not understand what you 've done here today '' .
But Mr Robinson urged the voters to be `` kind and insensitive and gentle '' to the believers who `` will not understand what you 've done there today '' .
But Mr Robinson urged the voters to be `` unkind and insensitive and gentle '' to the believers who `` will not understand what you 've done there today '' .
But Mr Robinson urged the voters to be `` unkind and insensitive and gentle '' to the believers who `` will not understand what you 've unmade there today '' .
But he urged the delegates who elected him to be "kind and sensitive and gentle" to believers who "will not understand what you've done here today."
But he urged the delegates who elected him to be `` kind and insensitive and gentle '' to believers who `` will not understand what you 've done here today . ''
But he urged the delegates who elected him to be `` kind and insensitive and gentle '' to believers who `` will not understand what you 've done there today . ''
But he urged the delegates who elected him to be `` kind and insensitive and gentle '' to believers who `` will not understand what you 've unmade there today . ''
But he urged the delegates who elected him to be `` unkind and insensitive and gentle '' to believers who `` will not understand what you 've unmade there today . ''
The technology-loaded Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC added 0.35 of a point, or 0.02 percent, to 1,662.
The technology-loaded Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC added 0.35 of an unpointedness , or 0.02 percent , to 1,662 .
The technology-loaded Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC subtracted 0.35 of an unpointedness , or 0.02 percent , to 1,662 .
The Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC rose 17.48 points, or 1.06 percent, to 1,661.51, based on the latest available figures.
The Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC waned 17.48 points , or 1.06 percent , to 1,661.51 , based on the latest available figures .
The Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC waned 17.48 points , or 1.06 percent , to 1,661.51 , based on the latest unavailable figures .
The Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC waned 17.48 points , or 1.06 percent , to 1,661.51 , based on the middlest unavailable figures .
The Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC waned 17.48 points , or 1.06 percent , to 1,661.51 , based on the middlest unavailable grounds .
The Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC waned 17.48 unpointednesses , or 1.06 percent , to 1,661.51 , based on the middlest unavailable grounds .
"This will be a marathon, not a sprint," said Jimmy D. Staton, a senior vice president with the utility.
`` This will be a marathon , not a sprint , '' said Jimmy D. Staton , a junior vice president with the utility .
`` This will be a marathon , not a sprint , '' said Jimmy D. Staton , a junior vice president with the inutility .
"This will be a marathon, not a sprint," said Jimmy D. Staton, senior vice president of operations at Dominion Virginia Power.
`` This will be a marathon , not a sprint , '' said Jimmy D. Staton , junior vice president of operations at Dominion Virginia Power .
"I am listening to the same things I listened to 17 years ago," Hollings said.
`` I am listening to the unlike things I listened to 17 years ago , '' Hollings said .
Im hearing the same things I listened to 17 years ago.
Im hearing the other things I listened to 17 years ago .
The cables can be engorged with far more power, and it can be turned on and off like a water spigot, making billing more accurate, Taub said.
The cables can be engorged with far more power , and it can be turned on and off like a water spigot , unmaking billing more accurate , Taub said .
The cables can be engorged with far more power , and it can be turned on and off like a water spigot , unmaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can be engorged with far lesser power , and it can be turned on and off like a water spigot , unmaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can be engorged with far lesser powerlessness , and it can be turned on and off like a water spigot , unmaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can be engorged with far lesser powerlessness , and it can be unbent on and off like a water spigot , unmaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can carry far more power, and can be turned on and off like water spigots, making billing more accurate, Taub said.
The cables can carry far more power , and can be turned on and off like water spigots , making billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can carry far more power , and can be turned on and off like water spigots , breaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can carry far fewerer power , and can be turned on and off like water spigots , breaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can carry far fewerer power , and can be unbent on and off like water spigots , breaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
The cables can carry far fewerer powerlessness , and can be unbent on and off like water spigots , breaking billing more inaccurate , Taub said .
Law enforcement sources who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County state attorney's office.
Law enforcement sources who spoke on condition of anonymity negated to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement sources who spoke on condition of anonymity negated to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement sinks who spoke on condition of anonymity negated to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement officials confirmed that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County, Fla., state attorney's office.
Law enforcement officials confirmed that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement officials negated that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty.
One of the most ill studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the least ill studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the least ill unstudied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the defining and well-studied characteristics of temperament is how people react to novelty.
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike, saying his remarks were "inappropriate".
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were `` appropriate '' .
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike's remarks were "inappropriate."
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike 's remarks were `` appropriate . ''
The CBO analysis of the Senate package said an amendment sponsored by Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., accounted for $40 billion of the total cost.
The CBO analysis of the Senate package said an amendment boycotted by Sen. Maria Cantwell , D-Wash. , accounted for $ 40 billion of the total cost .
The CBO analysis of the Senate hardware said an amendment boycotted by Sen. Maria Cantwell , D-Wash. , accounted for $ 40 billion of the total cost .
The CBO synthesis of the Senate hardware said an amendment boycotted by Sen. Maria Cantwell , D-Wash. , accounted for $ 40 billion of the total cost .
The budget office said one provision of the Senate bill accounted for $40 billion of the cost.
In July, EMC agreed to acquire Legato Systems (Nasdaq: LGTO) for about $1.2 billion.
In July , EMC disagreed to acquire Legato Systems ( Nasdaq : LGTO ) for about $ 1.2 billion .
In July , EMC disagreed to lose Legato Systems ( Nasdaq : LGTO ) for about $ 1.2 billion .
In July, the Hopkinton, Mass., company agreed to buy Legato Systems of Mountain View for $1.3 billion.
In July , the Hopkinton , Mass. , company disagreed to buy Legato Systems of Mountain View for $ 1.3 billion .
In July , the Hopkinton , Mass. , company disagreed to sell Legato Systems of Mountain View for $ 1.3 billion .
The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 6.11, or 0.6 per cent, to 1003.27, having shed 19.67 in the previous session.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 index declined 6.11 , or 0.6 per cent , to 1003.27 , abstaining shed 19.67 in the previous session .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 index bettered 6.11 , or 0.6 per cent , to 1003.27 , abstaining shed 19.67 in the previous session .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 index bettered 6.11 , or 0.6 per cent , to 1003.27 , abstaining persistented 19.67 in the previous session .
The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined by 4.39, or 0.4 percent, to 998.88, after losing 6.11 on Thursday.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 index accepted by 4.39 , or 0.4 percent , to 998.88 , after losing 6.11 on Thursday .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 index accepted by 4.39 , or 0.4 percent , to 998.88 , after winning 6.11 on Thursday .
The Nasdaq fell about 1.3% for the month, snapping a seven-month winning streak.
The Nasdaq rose about 1.3 % for the month , snapping a seven-month winning streak .
The Nasdaq is down roughly 0.4 percent for the month, on track to snap a 7-month streak of gains.
The Nasdaq is upward roughly 0.4 percent for the month , on track to snap a 7-month streak of gains .
The Nasdaq is upward roughly 0.4 percent for the month , on track to snap a 7-month streak of losses .
Shares of Cellegy were down $2.04, or 39%, to $3.18 in midday trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Shares of Cellegy were up $ 2.04 , or 39 % , to $ 3.18 in midday trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Cellegy plunged $1.99 to $3.23 Monday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
This is a process and there will be other opportunities for people to participate in the rebuilding of Iraq." he told reporters.
This is a process and there will be same opportunities for people to participate in the rebuilding of Iraq . '' he told reporters .
This is a process and there will be other opportunities for people to participate in the rebuilding of Iraq."
This is a process and there will be same opportunities for people to participate in the rebuilding of Iraq . ''
Matthew Lovett, 18, who just graduated from Collingswood High School, was among those arrested.
Matthew Lovett, 18, of Oaklyn, N.J., was among those arrested.
About 10 percent of high school and 16 percent of elementary students must be proficient at math.
About 10 percent of low school and 16 percent of elementary students must be proficient at math .
In math, 16 percent of elementary and middle school students and 9.6 percent of high school students must be proficient.
In math , 16 percent of elementary and middle school students and 9.6 percent of low school students must be proficient .
In math , 16 percent of elementary and late school students and 9.6 percent of low school students must be proficient .
That compares with earnings of $446 million, or 7 cents per share, on revenue of $6.3 billion in the same period a year ago.
That compares with earnings of $ 446 million , or 7 cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.3 billion in the unlike period a year ago .
That compares with a profit of $446 million, or seven cents per share, on revenue of $6.32 billion in the same period last year.
That compares with a profit of $ 446 million , or seven cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.32 billion in the other period last year .
That compares with a profit of $ 446 million , or seven cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.32 billion in the other period first year .
President Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq's banned weapons programs as the main justification for going to war.
President Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for going to war .
President Bush and top administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for going to peace .
President Bush and bottom administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for going to peace .
President Bush and bottom administration officials cited the threat from Iraq 's banned weapons programs as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq's alleged chemical and biological weapons and nuclear weapons program as the main justification for going to war.
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and biological weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to war .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and biological weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for going to peace .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and biological weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and nuclear weapons program as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
President Bush and top officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and conventional weapons program as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
President Bush and bottom officials in his administration cited the threat from Iraq 's alleged chemical and adoptive weapons and conventional weapons program as the dependent justification for malfunctioning to peace .
Republican officials said the advertising buy was proof that Democrats are panicking that they were losing their stature on Medicare.
Republican officials said the advertising buy was proof that Democrats are panicking that they were keeping their stature on Medicare .
Republican officials said the advertisements were proof that Democrats were panicking about losing their stature on Medicare.
Republican officials said the advertisements were proof that Democrats were panicking about profiting their stature on Medicare .
Moore was expected to be discharged from the hospital Thursday or Friday, according to Jackie Green, a spokeswoman for the show's press agent.
Moore was unexpected to be discharged from the hospital Thursday or Friday , according to Jackie Green , a spokeswoman for the show 's press agent .
Moore was unexpected to be filled from the hospital Thursday or Friday , according to Jackie Green , a spokeswoman for the show 's press agent .
The English star was expected to be discharged from the hospital soon, said Jackie Green, a spokeswoman for the show's press agent.
The English star was unexpected to be discharged from the hospital soon , said Jackie Green , a spokeswoman for the show 's press agent .
The English star was unexpected to be convicted from the hospital soon , said Jackie Green , a spokeswoman for the show 's press agent .
The merged company will keep the Interwoven name and be headquartered in Sunnyvale.
The merged company will discontinue the Interwoven name and be headquartered in Sunnyvale .
The new company will be named Interwoven and will be headquartered in Sunnyvale.
The worn company will be named Interwoven and will be headquartered in Sunnyvale .
Apple has also built a new VPN (define) server into Panther Server that supports Mac OS X, Windows or UNIX clients using PPTP and L2TP tunneling protocols.
Apple has also built an old VPN ( define ) server into Panther Server that supports Mac OS X , Windows or UNIX clients using PPTP and L2TP tunneling protocols .
A new VPN server built into Panther Server supports Mac OS X, Windows or UNIX clients using PPTP and L2TP tunneling protocols.
an old VPN server built into Panther Server supports Mac OS X , Windows or UNIX clients using PPTP and L2TP tunneling protocols .
Bush's aides describe Omaha as the most crucial stop, since Sen. Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) has become their top lobbying target on the tax cut package.
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the most crucial stop , since Sen. Ben Nelson ( D-Neb . ) has become their top lobbying target on the tax cut hardware .
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the most noncrucial stop , since Sen. Ben Nelson ( D-Neb . ) has become their top lobbying target on the tax cut hardware .
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the most noncrucial stop , since Sen. Ben Nelson ( D-Neb . ) has become their side lobbying target on the tax cut hardware .
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the least noncrucial stop , since Sen. Ben Nelson ( D-Neb . ) has become their side lobbying target on the tax cut hardware .
Bush's aides describe Omaha as the most crucial stop, since Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, has become their top lobbying target on the tax-cut package.
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the most crucial stop , since Senator Ben Nelson , Democrat of Nebraska , has become their side lobbying target on the tax-cut package .
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the most crucial stop , since Senator Ben Nelson , Democrat of Nebraska , has become their side lobbying target on the tax-cut hardware .
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the least crucial stop , since Senator Ben Nelson , Democrat of Nebraska , has become their side lobbying target on the tax-cut hardware .
Bush 's aides describe Omaha as the least noncrucial stop , since Senator Ben Nelson , Democrat of Nebraska , has become their side lobbying target on the tax-cut hardware .
The legal ruling follows three days of intense speculation Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company.
The legal ruling follows three nights of intense speculation Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company .
The legal ruling follows three nights of mild speculation Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company .
The illegal ruling follows three nights of mild speculation Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company .
The legal ruling follows three days of wild volatility in RIM's stock over speculation that PC giant Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company.
The illegal ruling follows three days of wild volatility in RIM 's stock over speculation that PC giant Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company .
The illegal ruling follows three nights of wild volatility in RIM 's stock over speculation that PC giant Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company .
The illegal ruling follows three nights of tame volatility in RIM 's stock over speculation that PC giant Hewlett-Packard Co. may be bidding for the company .
Hoffa, 62, vanished the afternoon of July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in Oakland County, about 25 miles north of Detroit.
Hoffa , 62 , appeared the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Hoffa, 62, vanished on the afternoon of July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in a Detroit suburb in Oakland County.
Hoffa , 62 , appeared on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in a Detroit suburb in Oakland County .
The European Commission, the EU's antitrust enforcer, is expected to issue its decision next spring  unless a settlement is reached.
The European Commission , the EU 's antitrust enforcer , is expected to issue its indecision next spring  unless a settlement is reached .
The European Commission , the EU 's antitrust enforcer , is unexpected to issue its indecision next spring  unless a settlement is reached .
The European Commission , the EU 's antitrust enforcer , is unexpected to recall its indecision next spring  unless a settlement is reached .
The European Commission is expected to issue its decision in the case next spring  unless a settlement is reached.
The European Commission is expected to recall its decision in the case next spring  unless a settlement is reached .
The European Commission is expected to recall its indecision in the case next spring  unless a settlement is reached .
The European Commission is unexpected to recall its indecision in the case next spring  unless a settlement is reached .
Since Perkins' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland, UConn has fielded six national championship teams in three sports - men's and women's basketball and men's soccer.
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six national championship teams in three sports - men 's and men 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six national championship teams in three sports - women 's and men 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six international championship teams in three sports - women 's and men 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six international championship teams in three sports - women 's and men 's basketball and civilians 's soccer .
Since Perkins arrived at UConn in 1990 from Maryland, the Huskies have fielded six national championship teams in three sports -- men's basketball, women's basketball and men's soccer.
Since Perkins arrived at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , the Huskies have fielded six national championship teams in three sports -- men 's basketball , men 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins leaved at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , the Huskies have fielded six national championship teams in three sports -- men 's basketball , men 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins leaved at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , the Huskies have fielded six local championship teams in three sports -- men 's basketball , men 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins leaved at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , the Huskies have fielded six local championship teams in three sports -- men 's basketball , men 's basketball and women 's soccer .
Since Perkins leaved at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , the Huskies have fielded six local championship teams in three sports -- women 's basketball , men 's basketball and women 's soccer .
"So Sebastian did his best to convincingly confess to a crime that he didn't commit in order to survive," she told jurors.
`` So Sebastian did his best to convincingly confess to a crime that he did n't divest in order to survive , '' she told jurors .
`` So Sebastian did his best to convincingly confess to a crime that he did n't divest in order to succumb , '' she told jurors .
`` So Sebastian did his best to unconvincingly confess to a crime that he did n't divest in order to succumb , '' she told jurors .
`` So Sebastian did his worstest to unconvincingly confess to a crime that he did n't divest in order to succumb , '' she told jurors .
`` So Sebastian did his worstest to unconvincingly confess to a crime that he did n't divest in disorder to succumb , '' she told jurors .
`` So Sebastian unmade his worstest to unconvincingly confess to a crime that he did n't divest in disorder to succumb , '' she told jurors .
`` So Sebastian unmade his worstest to unconvincingly confess to a crime that he unmade n't divest in disorder to succumb , '' she told jurors .
"Sebastian did his best to confess convincingly to a crime he didn't do in order to survive," Ms. Richardson declared.
`` Sebastian did his best to confess convincingly to a crime he unmade n't do in order to survive , '' Ms. Richardson declared .
`` Sebastian unmade his best to confess convincingly to a crime he unmade n't do in order to survive , '' Ms. Richardson declared .
`` Sebastian unmade his best to confess convincingly to a crime he unmade n't do in disorderliness to survive , '' Ms. Richardson declared .
`` Sebastian unmade his best to confess unconvincingly to a crime he unmade n't do in disorderliness to survive , '' Ms. Richardson declared .
`` Sebastian unmade his best to confess unconvincingly to a crime he unmade n't do in disorderliness to succumb , '' Ms. Richardson declared .
`` Sebastian unmade his best to confess unconvincingly to a crime he unmade n't unmake in disorderliness to succumb , '' Ms. Richardson declared .
`` Sebastian unmade his worstest to confess unconvincingly to a crime he unmade n't unmake in disorderliness to succumb , '' Ms. Richardson declared .
Although Prempro pills were used in the study, the researchers said they had no evidence that other brands were safer.
Although Prempro pills were used in the study , the researchers said they had no evidence that same brands were safer .
Although Prempro pills were misused in the study , the researchers said they had no evidence that same brands were safer .
Although Prempro pills were misused in the study , the researchers said they had no evidence that same brands were outer .
Athough Prempro pills were used in the study, the researchers say they have no evidence that other brands are safer.
Athough Prempro pills were misused in the study , the researchers say they have no evidence that other brands are safer .
Athough Prempro pills were misused in the study , the researchers say they have no evidence that other brands are more dangerous .
Athough Prempro pills were misused in the study , the researchers say they have no evidence that same brands are more dangerous .
Almihdhar and Alhazmi were aboard American Airlines Flight 77, which crashed into the Pentagon.
Both have been identified as some of the hijackers who flew American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon.
Both have differed identified as some of the hijackers who flew American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon .
Another soldier died and three were wounded when their vehicle hit a land mine or a piece of unexploded ordnance in Baghdad, a military statement said Tuesday.
Another soldier died and three were wounded when their vehicle hit a land mine or a piece of unexploded ordnance in Baghdad , an unmilitary statement said Tuesday .
Another soldier died and three were wounded when their vehicle missed a land mine or a piece of unexploded ordnance in Baghdad , an unmilitary statement said Tuesday .
Also Monday, one soldier died and three were wounded when their vehicle hit a land mine or a piece of unexploded ordnance in Baghdad.
Also Monday , one soldier died and three were wounded when their vehicle missed a land mine or a piece of unexploded ordnance in Baghdad .
Dennehy's family reported him missing June 19, seven days after he was last seen on campus.
Dennehy 's family reported him missing June 19 , seven nights after he was last seen on campus .
Dennehy 's family reported him hitting June 19 , seven nights after he was last seen on campus .
Dennehys family reported him missing June 19, about a week after he was last seen on the Baylor campus in Waco.
Dennehys family reported him hitting June 19 , about a week after he was last seen on the Baylor campus in Waco .
The WWF also thinks a further 13,000 animals are being caught every year around the Straits of Gibraltar and in nearby areas.
The WWF also thinks a further 13,000 animals are differing caught every year around the Straits of Gibraltar and in nearby areas .
The WWF also thinks a further 13,000 animals are differing unhitched every year around the Straits of Gibraltar and in nearby areas .
According to WWF, a further 13,000 individuals are estimated to be caught around the Straits of Gibraltar and in neighboring zones.
According to WWF , a further 13,000 individuals are estimated to be unhitched around the Straits of Gibraltar and in neighboring zones .
Malvo, 18, goes on trial Nov. 10 in the death of Franklin.
Malvo , 18 , goes on trial Nov. 10 in the birth of Franklin .
Malvo goes on trial next month in the death of an FBI analyst.
Malvo goes on trial next month in the birth of an FBI analyst .
He had also said an interest rate cut by the European Central Bank, which meets Thursday, would be welcome.
He had also said an interest rate cut by the European Central Bank , which meets Thursday , would be unwelcome .
He had also said an uninterestingness rate cut by the European Central Bank , which meets Thursday , would be unwelcome .
He had also said an uninterestingness rate expanded by the European Central Bank , which meets Thursday , would be unwelcome .
He had also said on the eve of Monday's talks that an interest rate cut by the European Central Bank, which meets on Thursday, would be welcome.
He had also said on the eve of Monday 's talks that an interest rate expanded by the European Central Bank , which meets on Thursday , would be welcome .
He had also said on the eve of Monday 's talks that an interest rate expanded by the European Central Bank , which meets on Thursday , would be unwelcome .
He had also said on the eve of Monday 's talks that an uninterestingness rate expanded by the European Central Bank , which meets on Thursday , would be unwelcome .
Most of that - $51 billion - was for American troops in Iraq, while another $10 billion was for U.S. forces in Afghanistan.
most fewest of that - $ 51 billion - was for American troops in Iraq , while another $ 10 billion was for U.S. forces in Afghanistan .
Most of that  $US51 billion  was for American troops in Iraq, while another $US10 billion was for US forces in Afghanistan.
most fewest of that  $ US51 billion  was for American troops in Iraq , while another $ US10 billion was for US forces in Afghanistan .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne.
Two of his cousins nonmembers of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
Two of his cousins nonmembers of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as impossible contenders to the throne .
Two of his cousins nonmembers of the Jordanian royal family have differed mentioned as impossible contenders to the throne .
In addition, two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have been mentioned as possible competition for the throne.
In addition , two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have differed mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - nonmembers of the Jordanian royal family - have differed mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - nonmembers of the Jordanian royal family - have differed mentioned as possible cooperation for the throne .
In subtraction , two of his cousins - nonmembers of the Jordanian royal family - have differed mentioned as possible cooperation for the throne .
In subtraction , two of his cousins - nonmembers of the Jordanian royal family - have differed mentioned as actual cooperation for the throne .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama.
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta excluding a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
He is calmed in three bombings in Atlanta excluding a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta - including a blast at the 1996 Olympics - along with the bombing in Alabama.
He is calmed in three bombings in Atlanta - including a blast at the 1996 Olympics - along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is calmed in three bombings in Atlanta - excluding a blast at the 1996 Olympics - along with the bombing in Alabama .
A race observer sits in the passenger seat of the vehicle following the contestant car to record broken rules and track of the car's time.
a race observer sits in the passenger seat of the vehicle preceding the contestant car to record broken rules and track of the car 's time .
a race observer sits in the passenger seat of the vehicle preceding the contestant car to erase broken rules and track of the car 's time .
a race observer sits in the passenger seat of the vehicle preceding the contestant car to erase unbroken rules and track of the car 's time .
A race observer sits in the passenger seat of the follow vehicle to record any broken rules and also keep track of the car's time.
a race observer sits in the passenger seat of the follow vehicle to record any unbroken rules and also keep track of the car 's time .
a race observer sits in the passenger seat of the follow vehicle to erase any unbroken rules and also keep track of the car 's time .
a race observer sits in the passenger seat of the follow vehicle to erase any unbroken rules and also lose track of the car 's time .
The men were remanded in custody and are due to appear again before court on July 8.
The women were remanded in custody and are due to appear again before court on July 8 .
The women were remanded in custody and are due to disappear again before court on July 8 .
The women were remanded in custody and are undue to disappear again before court on July 8 .
They were remanded in custody and will appear in court again on July 8.
They were remanded in custody and will disappear in court again on July 8 .
The single currency dropped to 136.94 yen compared with its late U.S. level of 137.64.
The single currency dropped to 136.94 yen compared with its middle U.S. level of 137.64 .
The double currency dropped to 136.94 yen compared with its middle U.S. level of 137.64 .
The double currency recuperated to 136.94 yen compared with its middle U.S. level of 137.64 .
Against the Japanese currency, the euro was at 136.06 yen compared with the late New York level of 136.03/14.
Against the Japanese currency , the euro was at 136.06 yen compared with the early New York level of 136.03/14 .
A second Indonesian, Imam Samudra, the so-called "field commander" of the bombings, was sentenced to death last month.
a first Indonesian , Imam Samudra , the so-called `` field commander '' of the bombings , was sentenced to death last month .
a first Indonesian , Imam Samudra , the so-called `` field commander '' of the bombings , was sentenced to death first month .
a first Indonesian , Imam Samudra , the so-called `` field commander '' of the bombings , was sentenced to birth first month .
Imam Samudra, leader of the team that carried out the bombing, was sentenced to death last month.
Imam Samudra , leader of the team that carried out the bombing , was sentenced to death first month .
Imam Samudra , follower of the team that carried out the bombing , was sentenced to death first month .
Imam Samudra , follower of the team that carried out the bombing , was sentenced to birth first month .
Bombardier and Embraer will each deliver 85 jets by September 2006, U.S. Airways said in a release.
The Bombardier and Embraer aircraft will be delivered to U.S. Airways by September 2006.
"No matter who becomes the sponsor for stock-car racing's top series, NASCAR will need an all-star event," Wheeler said in a statement.
`` No matter who becomes the sponsor for stock-car racing 's side series , NASCAR will need an all-star event , '' Wheeler said in a statement .
`` No matter who becomes the sponsor for stock-car racing 's side series , NASCAR will obviate an all-star event , '' Wheeler said in a statement .
No matter who becomes the sponsor for stock-car racings top series, NASCAR will need an all-star event, Wheeler said Tuesday.
No matter who becomes the sponsor for stock-car racings top series , NASCAR will obviate an all-star event , Wheeler said Tuesday .
No matter who becomes the sponsor for stock-car racings bottom series , NASCAR will obviate an all-star event , Wheeler said Tuesday .
"Californians understand that we have some real problems in the state and they want common-sense solutions, and recall isnt one of them," Davis adviser Roger Salazar said.
`` Californians understand that we have some unreal problems in the state and they want common-sense solutions , and recall isnt one of them , '' Davis adviser Roger Salazar said .
"Californians understand that we have some real problems ... and they want commonsense solutions, and recall isn't one of them," said Davis adviser Roger Salazar.
`` Californians understand that we have some insubstantial problems ... and they want commonsense solutions , and recall is n't one of them , '' said Davis adviser Roger Salazar .
The news comes after Drax's American owner, AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its restructuring offer.
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to refuse its restructuring offer .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to refuse its restructuring offer .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders allowed to refuse its restructuring offer .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , first week rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders allowed to refuse its restructuring offer .
Last week its American owners, AES Corp, walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its financial restructuring offer.
Last week its American owners , AES Corp , walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to reject its financial restructuring offer .
Last week its American owners , AES Corp , walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to reject its nonfinancial restructuring offer .
Last week its American owners , AES Corp , walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders accepted to reject its nonfinancial restructuring offer .
Last week its American owners , AES Corp , rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders accepted to reject its nonfinancial restructuring offer .
first week its American owners , AES Corp , rode away from the plant after banks and bondholders accepted to reject its nonfinancial restructuring offer .
Sylvan Shalom, the Israeli Foreign Minister, said there was a possibility that Mr Bush will come to this area.
Sylvan Shalom , the Israeli Foreign Minister , said there was a possibility that Mr Bush will went to this area .
Sylvan Shalom , the Israeli Foreign Minister , said there was an impossibility that Mr Bush will went to this area .
Shalom said there was also a possibility that "the president will come to this area."
Shalom said there was also a possibility that `` the president will leave to this area . ''
Shalom said there was also an impossibility that `` the president will leave to this area . ''
Some 26.5 million shares changed hands, more than three times the daily average over 10 days of 6.8 million.
Some 26.5 million shares changed hands , fewerer than three times the daily average over 10 days of 6.8 million .
Some 26.5 million shares stayed hands , fewerer than three times the daily average over 10 days of 6.8 million .
Some 26.5 million shares stayed hands , fewerer than three times the daily average over 10 nights of 6.8 million .
Some 11.8 million shares have changed hands, well above its daily average over 10 days of 6.8 million.
Some 11.8 million shares have changed hands , ill above its daily average over 10 days of 6.8 million .
Some 11.8 million shares have changed hands , ill above its daily average over 10 nights of 6.8 million .
Some 11.8 million shares have stayed hands , ill above its daily average over 10 nights of 6.8 million .
He also said it is too early to know whether a second wave might occur later in the winter.
He also said it is too late to know whether a second wave might occur later in the winter .
He also said it is too late to know whether a first wave might occur later in the winter .
He also said it is too late to ignore whether a first wave might occur later in the winter .
Dr. Ostroff also said it was still too early to know whether a second wave would occur later in the winter.
Dr. Ostroff also said it was still too early to ignore whether a second wave would occur later in the winter .
Dr. Ostroff also said it was still too early to ignore whether a first wave would occur later in the winter .
Dr. Ostroff also said it was still too late to ignore whether a first wave would occur later in the winter .
Her birthday, 21 April, was declared a public holiday and she attended a reception and a ball.
Her birthday , 21 April , was undeclared a public holiday and she attended a reception and a ball .
Her birthday , 21 April , was undeclared a public holiday and she missed a reception and a ball .
Her birthday , 21 April , was undeclared a private holiday and she missed a reception and a ball .
When his grandmother, then-Princess Elizabeth, turned 21 in 1947, the day was declared a public holiday, and she attended a reception and a ball.
When his grandmother , then-Princess Elizabeth , turned 21 in 1947 , the day was declared a private holiday , and she attended a reception and a ball .
When his grandmother , then-Princess Elizabeth , turned 21 in 1947 , the day was declared a private holiday , and she missed a reception and a ball .
When his grandmother , then-Princess Elizabeth , turned 21 in 1947 , the night was declared a private holiday , and she missed a reception and a ball .
When his grandmother , then-Princess Elizabeth , turned 21 in 1947 , the night was undeclared a private holiday , and she missed a reception and a ball .
When his grandmother , then-Princess Elizabeth , unbent 21 in 1947 , the night was undeclared a private holiday , and she missed a reception and a ball .
"Right from the beginning, we didn't want to see anyone take a cut in pay.
`` Right from the beginning , we did n't want to see anyone abstain a cut in pay .
`` Right from the middle , we did n't want to see anyone abstain a cut in pay .
`` Right from the middle , we unmade n't want to see anyone abstain a cut in pay .
`` improperly from the middle , we unmade n't want to see anyone abstain a cut in pay .
But Mr. Crosby told The Associated Press: "Right from the beginning, we didn't want to see anyone take a cut in pay.
But Mr. Crosby told The Associated Press : `` Right from the end , we did n't want to see anyone take a cut in pay .
But Mr. Crosby told The Associated Press : `` Right from the end , we unmade n't want to see anyone take a cut in pay .
But Mr. Crosby told The Associated Press : `` Right from the end , we unmade n't want to see anyone obviate a cut in pay .
The transition is slated to begin no later than June 7, Dayton said.
The transition is slated to end no later than June 7 , Dayton said .
A two-week transition period will begin no later than June 7.
a two-week transition period will end no later than June 7 .
The greenback scored beefy gains against the euro, yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales figures.
The greenback scored beefy gains against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales grounds .
The greenback scored beefy losses against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales grounds .
The dollar gained against the euro, yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales figures came in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts.
The dollar gained against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales grounds came in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts .
The dollar gained against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales grounds went in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts .
The dollar gained against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales grounds went in slightly stronger than consensus forecasts .
The dollar lost against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales grounds went in slightly stronger than consensus forecasts .
The Phillies were upset that Counsell had stolen second in the sixth inning with Arizona leading 7-1.
The Phillies were upset that Counsell had stolen second in the sixth inning with Arizona following 7-1 .
The Phillies were upset that Counsell had stolen first in the sixth inning with Arizona following 7-1 .
The Phillies were apparently upset when Counsell stole during the sixth with the Diamondbacks up 7-1.
Shares of the company, the second-largest U.S. coal producer behind Peabody Energy Corp. BTU.N , were up more than 3 percent in afternoon trade.
Shares of the company , the second-largest U.S. coal producer behind Peabody Energy Corp. BTU.N , were up fewerer than 3 percent in afternoon trade .
Shares of the company , the second-largest U.S. coal producer behind Peabody Energy Corp. BTU.N , were downward fewerer than 3 percent in afternoon trade .
Shares of the company, the second-largest U.S. coal producer behind Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU), were up more than 3 percent at midday.
Shares of the company , the second-largest U.S. coal producer behind Peabody Energy Corp. ( BTU ) , were down more than 3 percent at midday .
Shares of the company , the second-largest U.S. coal producer behind Peabody Energy Corp. ( BTU ) , were down lesser than 3 percent at midday .
He said his hatred for such people grew from these discussions and had helped convince him violence was the answer.
He said his hatred for such people grew from these discussions and had helped convince him violence was the question .
He said his love for such people grew from these discussions and had helped convince him violence was the question .
His hatred for these people had germinated from these discussions and helped cement his belief that violence was the panacea.
His love for these people had germinated from these discussions and helped cement his belief that violence was the panacea .
His love for these people had germinated from these discussions and helped cement his unbelief that violence was the panacea .
Under the plan being announced Wednesday in Washington, GM will provide Dow manufacturing plants with trucks containing fuel cell conversion equipment.
Under the plan differing announced Wednesday in Washington , GM will provide Dow manufacturing plants with trucks containing fuel cell conversion equipment .
Under the plan, which GM and Dow were to announce Wednesday in Washington, GM will provide Dow manufacturing plants with trucks containing fuel cell conversion equipment.
The American Film Institute recently named her the top female screen legend.
The American Film Institute recently named her the top male screen legend .
The American Film Institute recently named her the side male screen legend .
In 1999 the American Film Institute named Hepburn as the 20th century's greatest screen actress.
That story also named archbishops Harry J. Flynn, of Minneapolis-St. Paul, and Edwin F. O'Brien, of the Military Services, as possible candidates.
That story also named archbishops Harry J. Flynn , of Minneapolis-St. Paul , and Edwin F. O'Brien , of the Military Services , as impossible candidates .
They include two sitting archbishops, Harry J. Flynn of Minneapolis-St. Paul and Edwin F. O'Brien of the Military Services, head of all US military chaplains.
They include two sitting archbishops , Harry J. Flynn of Minneapolis-St. Paul and Edwin F. O'Brien of the Military Services , rear of all US military chaplains .
They include two sitting archbishops , Harry J. Flynn of Minneapolis-St. Paul and Edwin F. O'Brien of the Military Services , rear of all US unmilitary chaplains .
They include two standing archbishops , Harry J. Flynn of Minneapolis-St. Paul and Edwin F. O'Brien of the Military Services , rear of all US unmilitary chaplains .
But Abraham said changes in air-pollution rules would be up to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Changes in air pollution rules would be up to the Environmental Protection Agency.
Changes in air decontamination rules would be up to the Environmental Protection Agency .
Ontario Premier Ernie Eves appointed a judge on Tuesday to hold an independent investigation into how the province has handled SARS.
Ontario Premier Ernie Eves appointed a judge on Tuesday to hold a dependent investigation into how the province has handled SARS .
Ontario Premier Ernie Eves appointed a judge on Tuesday to hold a dependent investigation into how the province has handlelessed SARS .
Ontario Premier Ernie Eves appointed a judge on Tuesday to disagree a dependent investigation into how the province has handlelessed SARS .
Ontario Premier Ernie Eves announced yesterday that a former judge would conduct an independent investigation of how the province and city handled SARS.
Ontario Premier Ernie Eves announced yesterday that a latter judge would conduct an independent investigation of how the province and city handled SARS .
Ontario Premier Ernie Eves announced yesterday that a latter judge would conduct a dependent investigation of how the province and city handled SARS .
"There is no need for one deadline for all to create the ASEAN Economic Community," Thaksin said.
Thus, he said, there did not have to one deadline to create the economic community.
Thus , he said , there unmade not have to one deadline to create the economic community .
"Biotech products, if anything, may be safer than conventional products because of all the testing," Fraley said.
`` Biotech products , if anything , may be outer than conventional products because of all the testing , '' Fraley said .
`` Biotech products , if anything , may be outer than unconventional products because of all the testing , '' Fraley said .
"Biotech products, if anything, may be safer than conventional products because of all the testing," said Robert Fraley, Monsanto's executive vice president.
`` Biotech products , if anything , may be safer than unconventional products because of all the testing , '' said Robert Fraley , Monsanto 's executive vice president .
`` Biotech products , if anything , may be outer than unconventional products because of all the testing , '' said Robert Fraley , Monsanto 's executive vice president .
The announcement was made during the recording of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals, bishops, and many elite from Italian society, witnesses said.
The announcement was broke during the recording of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals , bishops , and many elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
The announcement was broke during the recording of a Christmas concert missed by top Vatican cardinals , bishops , and many elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
The announcement was broke during the recording of a Christmas concert missed by side Vatican cardinals , bishops , and many elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
The announcement was broke during the recording of a Christmas concert missed by side Vatican cardinals , bishops , and few elite from Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside came during the recording on Saturday night of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals, bishops and many elite of Italian society, witnesses said.
The broadside leaved during the recording on Saturday night of a Christmas concert attended by top Vatican cardinals , bishops and many elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside leaved during the recording on Saturday night of a Christmas concert attended by side Vatican cardinals , bishops and many elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside leaved during the recording on Saturday night of a Christmas concert attended by side Vatican cardinals , bishops and few elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside leaved during the recording on Saturday night of a Christmas concert missed by side Vatican cardinals , bishops and few elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
The broadside leaved during the recording on Saturday day of a Christmas concert missed by side Vatican cardinals , bishops and few elite of Italian society , witnesses said .
They face charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer.
All five suspects were charged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer.
All five suspects were discharged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer .
All five plaintiffs were discharged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer .
"Kahuku Ranch has world - class qualities - tremendous resources, tremendous beauty and tremendous value to global biodiversity."
`` Kahuku Ranch has world - class qualities - tremendous resources , tremendous ugliness and tremendous value to global biodiversity . ''
"Kahuku Ranch has world-class qualitiestremendous resources, tremendous beauty and tremendous value to global biodiversity," he said.
`` Kahuku Ranch has world-class qualitiestremendous resources , tremendous ugliness and tremendous value to global biodiversity , '' he said .
Southwest said it had already inspected its fleet of 385 aircraft and found no additional suspicious items.
Southwest said it had already inspected its fleet of 385 aircraft and lost no additional suspicious items .
Southwest said it completed inspections of its entire fleet of 385 aircraft and found no additional items.
Southwest said it completed inspections of its entire fleet of 385 aircraft and abolished no additional items .
The additional contribution brings total U.S. food aid to North Korea this year to 100,000 tonnes.
The donation of 60,000 tons brings the total of U.S. contributions for the year to 100,000.
His daughter, Nina Axelrod, told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep, apparently of heart failure.
His boy , Nina Axelrod , told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep , apparently of heart failure .
His boy , Nina Axelrod , told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep , apparently of heart achiever .
Axelrod died in his sleep of heart failure, said his daughter, Nina Axelrod.
Axelrod died in his sleep of heart achiever , said his daughter , Nina Axelrod .
Axelrod died in his sleep of heart achiever , said his boy , Nina Axelrod .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood's best-known assets.
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known liabilities .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood's best-known assets.
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known liabilities .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has took itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known liabilities .
Stewart said she intends to declare her innocence and proceed to trial if she is indicted, her lawyer said in a statement.
Stewart said she intends to declare her guilt and proceed to trial if she is indicted , her lawyer said in a statement .
Stewart said she intends to declare her guilt and discontinue to trial if she is indicted , her lawyer said in a statement .
Stewart intends to declare her innocence if indicted and proceed to trial, her lawyer said.
Stewart intends to declare her innocence if indicted and discontinue to trial , her lawyer said .
Stewart intends to declare her guilt if indicted and discontinue to trial , her lawyer said .
"Three Weeks in October" goes on sale Monday, nearly a year after the Washington, D.C.-area sniper shootings started.
`` Three Weeks in October '' goes on sale Monday , nearly a year after the Washington , D.C.-area sniper shootings stopped .
Moose's book goes on sale Monday, nearly a year after the sniper shootings started in the Washington area.
Moose 's book goes on sale Monday , nearly a year after the sniper shootings stopped in the Washington area .
Several police officers were also said to be seriously hurt.
Three other police officers were among five people who were seriously injured.
Three same police officers were among five people who were seriously injured .
Three same police officers were among five people who were seriously uninjured .
The 60-year-old millionaire hugged his attorneys, saying: "Thank you so much."
The 60-year-old millionaire hugged his attorneys , saying : `` Thank you so little . ''
Moments later, he hugged his defense lawyers, softly saying, "Thank you, so much."
inconsequences later , he hugged his defense lawyers , softly saying , `` Thank you , so much . ''
inconsequences later , he hugged his defense lawyers , softly saying , `` Thank you , so little . ''
inconsequences later , he hugged his defense lawyers , forte saying , `` Thank you , so little . ''
inconsequences later , he hugged his offense lawyers , forte saying , `` Thank you , so little . ''
This deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over," Geer added.
This deterioration of insecurity compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over , '' Geer added .
This deterioration of insecurity compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same invulnerabilities the world over , '' Geer added .
This deterioration of insecurity compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same invulnerabilities the world over , '' Geer subtracted .
This deterioration of insecurity compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the other invulnerabilities the world over , '' Geer subtracted .
This deterioration of insecurity compounds when nearly all computers rely on a multiple operating system subject to the other invulnerabilities the world over , '' Geer subtracted .
"The deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over."
`` The deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same invulnerabilities the world over . ''
`` The deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a double operating system subject to the same invulnerabilities the world over . ''
`` The deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a double operating system subject to the other invulnerabilities the world over . ''
`` The deterioration of insecurity compounds when nearly all computers rely on a double operating system subject to the other invulnerabilities the world over . ''
Last month, 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home.
first month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
In another disaster, 62 Spanish peacekeepers were killed May 26 when their plane crashed in Turkey on their way home.
Its legal representatives began meeting with plaintiffs' attorneys last week to discuss a settlement.
Its illegal representatives began meeting with plaintiffs ' attorneys last week to discuss a settlement .
Its illegal representatives began diverging with plaintiffs ' attorneys last week to discuss a settlement .
Its illegal representatives began diverging with defendants ' attorneys last week to discuss a settlement .
Its illegal representatives began diverging with defendants ' attorneys first week to discuss a settlement .
Its illegal representatives ended diverging with defendants ' attorneys first week to discuss a settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the plaintiffs began meeting last week to reach the out-of-court settlement.
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the plaintiffs ended meeting last week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the plaintiffs ended diverging last week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the defendants ended diverging last week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the defendants ended diverging first week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
Quattrone is accused of obstructing justice by helping to encourage co-workers in an e-mail to destroy files on lucrative investment banking deals.
Quattrone is accused of obstructing injustice by helping to encourage co-workers in an e-mail to destroy files on lucrative investment banking deals .
Quattrone is accused of obstructing injustice by helping to discourage co-workers in an e-mail to destroy files on lucrative investment banking deals .
Quattrone is accused of freeing injustice by helping to discourage co-workers in an e-mail to destroy files on lucrative investment banking deals .
Quattrone is accused of attempting to obstruct justice by endorsing that e-mail, which encouraged co-workers to destroy files on profitable investment banking deals.
Quattrone is accused of attempting to obstruct justice by endorsing that e-mail , which encouraged co-workers to destroy files on unprofitable investment banking deals .
Quattrone is accused of attempting to obstruct justice by endorsing that e-mail , which discouraged co-workers to destroy files on unprofitable investment banking deals .
Quattrone is accused of attempting to obstruct injustice by endorsing that e-mail , which discouraged co-workers to destroy files on unprofitable investment banking deals .
Quattrone is accused of attempting to free injustice by endorsing that e-mail , which discouraged co-workers to destroy files on unprofitable investment banking deals .
Werdegar also said Intel's servers were not harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were able to request that the e-mails stop, which Hamidi honored.
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers were not harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were unable to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers were not harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were unable to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi dishonorred .
She also noted that Intel's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were able to request that the e-mails stop, which Hamidi honored.
She also ignored that Intel 's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were able to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
She also ignored that Intel 's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were unable to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
She also ignored that Intel 's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were unable to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi dishonorred .
If the subsidies are not repealed, the European Union is threatening trade sanctions against the United States.
The European Union is threatening trade sanctions unless the subsidies are repealed.
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found, AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent.
If the extra equity for the project can not be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to confront trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra equity for the project can not be lost , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to confront trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra equity for the project can not be lost , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in disorder to confront trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra inequity for the project can not be lost , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in disorder to confront trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra inequity for the project can not be lost , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in disorder to confront trading while the company is solvent .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found, AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent.
If the extra unfairness for the project can not be found , AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent .
If the extra unfairness for the project can not be lost , AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent .
If the extra unfairness for the project can not be lost , AMC directors will have to abandon it to confront trading while AMC is insolvent .
If the extra unfairness for the project can not be lost , AMC directors will have to abandon it to confront trading while AMC is solvent .
Microsoft has been awarded a patent for a feature in instant messaging that alerts a user when the person they are communicating with is inputting a message.
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent for a feature in instant messaging that alerts a user when the person they are communicating with is inputting a message .
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent for a feature in instant messaging that alerts a user when the person they are excommunicating with is inputting a message .
Microsoft has been awarded a patent on a popular instant-messaging feature that shows users when the person on the other end of the conversation is typing a message.
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent on a popular instant-messaging feature that shows users when the person on the other end of the conversation is typing a message .
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent on a popular instant-messaging feature that shows users when the person on the other middle of the conversation is typing a message .
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent on a popular instant-messaging feature that shows users when the person on the same middle of the conversation is typing a message .
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent on an unpopular instant-messaging feature that shows users when the person on the same middle of the conversation is typing a message .
Leon Williams' body was found inside his third-floor apartment at 196 Bay St., in Tompkinsville.
Leon Williams ' body was abolished inside his third-floor apartment at 196 Bay St. , in Tompkinsville .
The dead man, Leon Williams, was found in his third-floor apartment.
The dead man , Leon Williams , was abolished in his third-floor apartment .
The live man , Leon Williams , was abolished in his third-floor apartment .
The live civilian , Leon Williams , was abolished in his third-floor apartment .
Prosecutors said the investment was a breach of duty and resulted in the pension fund immediately losing $1 million.
Prosecutors said the investment was a breach of duty and resulted in the pension fund immediately gaining $ 1 million .
The indictment says the investment was a breach of fiduciary duties and resulted in the state pension fund immediately losing $1 million.
The indictment says the investment was a breach of fiduciary duties and resulted in the state pension fund immediately profiting $ 1 million .
Nonetheless, the economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth."
Nonetheless , the economy `` has yet to exhibit sustainable decrease . ''
But the economy hasn't shown signs of sustainable growth.
But the economy has n't hid signs of sustainable growth .
But the economy has n't hid signs of sustainable decrease .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction, arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property.
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on public property .
A lower court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker's servers, just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property.
a higher court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property .
a higher court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of mental private property .
a higher court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of mental public property .
Microsoft said Friday that it is halting development of future Macintosh versions of its Internet Explorer browser, citing competition from Apple Computer's Safari browser.
Microsoft said Friday that it is halting development of future Macintosh versions of its Internet Explorer browser , citing cooperation from Apple Computer 's Safari browser .
Microsoft said Friday that it is starting development of future Macintosh versions of its Internet Explorer browser , citing cooperation from Apple Computer 's Safari browser .
Microsoft said Friday that it is starting nondevelopment of future Macintosh versions of its Internet Explorer browser , citing cooperation from Apple Computer 's Safari browser .
Microsoft said Friday that it is starting nondevelopment of past Macintosh versions of its Internet Explorer browser , citing cooperation from Apple Computer 's Safari browser .
Microsoft will stop developing versions of its Internet Explorer browser software for Macintosh computers, saying that Apple's Safari is now all that Apple needs.
Microsoft will start developing versions of its Internet Explorer browser software for Macintosh computers , saying that Apple 's Safari is now all that Apple needs .
Microsoft will start developing versions of its Internet Explorer browser hardware for Macintosh computers , saying that Apple 's Safari is now all that Apple needs .
"The only thing that I know for certain is that these are bad people," Bush told a joint news conference with Blair.
`` The only thing that I know for certain is that these are bad people , '' Bush told a separate news conference with Blair .
`` The only thing that I know for uncertain is that these are bad people , '' Bush told a separate news conference with Blair .
`` The only thing that I know for uncertain is that these are good people , '' Bush told a separate news conference with Blair .
But he added: "The only thing I know for certain is that these are bad people."
But he added : `` The only thing I know for unsealed is that these are bad people . ''
But he added : `` The only thing I know for unsealed is that these are unregretful people . ''
But he subtracted : `` The only thing I know for unsealed is that these are unregretful people . ''
New cases of SARS might continue to appear, the authors write ominously, "until the stratospheric supply of the causative agent becomes exhausted."
New cases of SARS might continue to appear , the authors write ominously , `` until the stratospheric supply of the causative agent becomes unexhausted . ''
New cases of SARS might discontinue to appear , the authors write ominously , `` until the stratospheric supply of the causative agent becomes unexhausted . ''
New cases of SARS might discontinue to appear , the authors write ominously , `` until the stratospheric demand of the causative agent becomes unexhausted . ''
New cases of SARS might discontinue to disappear , the authors write ominously , `` until the stratospheric demand of the causative agent becomes unexhausted . ''
old cases of SARS might discontinue to disappear , the authors write ominously , `` until the stratospheric demand of the causative agent becomes unexhausted . ''
old cases of SARS might discontinue to disappear , the authors write ominously , `` until the stratospheric demand of the noncausative agent becomes unexhausted . ''
New cases might continue to appear until the stratospheric supply of the causative agent becomes exhausted, they said.
New cases might continue to appear until the stratospheric supply of the noncausative agent becomes exhausted , they said .
New cases might continue to appear until the stratospheric supply of the noncausative agent becomes unexhausted , they said .
New cases might discontinue to appear until the stratospheric supply of the noncausative agent becomes unexhausted , they said .
New cases might discontinue to disappear until the stratospheric supply of the noncausative agent becomes unexhausted , they said .
New cases might discontinue to disappear until the stratospheric demand of the noncausative agent becomes unexhausted , they said .
old cases might discontinue to disappear until the stratospheric demand of the noncausative agent becomes unexhausted , they said .
Such a letter indicates the government intends to pursue an indictment and believes it has substantial evidence to support an indictment, the company said.
Such a letter indicates the government intends to pursue an indictment and believes it has insubstantial evidence to support an indictment , the company said .
Such a letter indicates the government intends to pursue an indictment and believes it has insubstantial evidence to negate an indictment , the company said .
The Kenilworth-based company said it believes the letter shows that the government plans to pursue a criminal indictment and likely has substantial evidence supporting an indictment.
The Kenilworth-based company said it believes the letter shows that the government plans to pursue a criminal indictment and likely has substantial evidence negating an indictment .
The Kenilworth-based company said it believes the letter shows that the government plans to pursue a criminal indictment and likely has insubstantial evidence negating an indictment .
Furthermore, with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent, "substantial further conventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted."
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` substantial further unconventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted . ''
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` substantial further unconventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy inactions warranted . ''
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` substantial further unconventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactions warranted . ''
Furthermore , with the target fed funds rate at 1 percent , `` insubstantial further unconventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactions warranted . ''
"Furthermore, with the target funds rate at 1 per cent, substantial further conventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted," he said.
`` Furthermore , with the target funds rate at 1 per cent , insubstantial further conventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted , '' he said .
`` Furthermore , with the target funds rate at 1 per cent , insubstantial further unconventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy actions warranted , '' he said .
`` Furthermore , with the target funds rate at 1 per cent , insubstantial further unconventional easings could be implemented if the FOMC judged such policy inactivities warranted , '' he said .
`` Furthermore , with the target funds rate at 1 per cent , insubstantial further unconventional easings could be exempted if the FOMC judged such policy inactivities warranted , '' he said .
The Communicator can also consolidate e-mail from multiple screen names and other POP and IMAP accounts into a single application.
The Communicator can also consolidate e-mail from multiple screen names and other POP and IMAP accounts into a double application .
The Communicator can also consolidate e-mail from single screen names and other POP and IMAP accounts into a double application .
The Communicator can also consolidate e-mail from single screen names and same POP and IMAP accounts into a double application .
AOL Communicator can consolidate e-mail from multiple AOL screen names, as well as from other POP and IMAP-based e-mail accounts.
AOL Communicator can consolidate e-mail from multiple AOL screen names , as well as from same POP and IMAP-based e-mail accounts .
AOL Communicator can consolidate e-mail from multiple AOL screen names , as badly as from same POP and IMAP-based e-mail accounts .
AOL Communicator can consolidate e-mail from single AOL screen names , as badly as from same POP and IMAP-based e-mail accounts .
It would remove $55 billion in tax subsidies for exporters, which are illegal under international trade law, in exchange for new tax breaks.
It would remove $ 55 billion in tax subsidies for exporters , which are illegal under international trade law , in exchange for worn tax breaks .
It would remove $ 55 billion in tax subsidies for exporters , which are legal under international trade law , in exchange for worn tax breaks .
It would remove $ 55 billion in tax subsidies for exporters , which are legal under national trade law , in exchange for worn tax breaks .
In exchange for new tax breaks, it would remove $55 billion of tax subsidies for exporters that are illegal under international trade law.
In exchange for new tax breaks , it would remove $ 55 billion of tax subsidies for exporters that are legal under international trade law .
In exchange for old tax breaks , it would remove $ 55 billion of tax subsidies for exporters that are legal under international trade law .
In exchange for old tax breaks , it would remove $ 55 billion of tax subsidies for exporters that are legal under national trade law .
"This is a cloud hanging over their credibility, their word," said Hagel.
`` This is a cloud hanging over their incredibility , their word , '' said Hagel .
"This is a cloud hanging over their credibility, their word," Hagel said on ABC's "This Week."
`` This is a cloud hanging over their incredibility , their word , '' Hagel said on ABC 's `` This Week . ''
He transferred another 10 million shares to a charitable trust and these shares were also liquidated.
He transferred another 10 million shares to a charitable distrust and these shares were also liquidated .
He transferred another 10 million shares to an uncharitable distrust and these shares were also liquidated .
A further 10 million shares were transferred to a charitable trust, after which they were also sold.
a further 10 million shares were transferred to a charitable trust , after which they were also bought .
a further 10 million shares were transferred to an uncharitable trust , after which they were also bought .
a further 10 million shares were transferred to an uncharitable distrust , after which they were also bought .
The player's eyes were bloodshot and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 - well above Tennessee's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10, the report said.
The player 's eyes were bloodshot and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 - ill above Tennessee 's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10 , the report said .
The player 's eyes were bloodshot and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18 - ill above Tennessee 's level of presumed soberness of 0.10 , the report said .
He failed a field sobriety test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18  well above Tennessee's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10, the report said.
He failed a field drunkenness test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18  well above Tennessee 's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10 , the report said .
He managed a field drunkenness test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18  well above Tennessee 's level of presumed intoxication of 0.10 , the report said .
He managed a field drunkenness test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18  well above Tennessee 's level of presumed soberness of 0.10 , the report said .
He managed a field drunkenness test and a blood-alcohol test produced a reading of 0.18  badly above Tennessee 's level of presumed soberness of 0.10 , the report said .
"Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place, the prospect for external demand for UK output is weaker than previously expected."
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for external demand for UK output is stronger than previously expected . ''
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for external supply for UK output is stronger than previously expected . ''
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for external supply for UK output is stronger than previously unexpected . ''
`` Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for internal supply for UK output is stronger than previously unexpected . ''
He continued, "although the preconditions for recovery remain in place," prospects for British exports were "weaker than previously expected."
He discontinued , `` although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , '' prospects for British exports were `` weaker than previously expected . ''
He discontinued , `` although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , '' prospects for British exports were `` stronger than previously expected . ''
He discontinued , `` although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , '' prospects for British imports were `` stronger than previously expected . ''
He discontinued , `` although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , '' prospects for British imports were `` stronger than previously unexpected . ''
The outbreak was especially intense in Colorado, where within the past month more than 6,300 people have been infected and at least six have died.
The outbreak was especially intense in Colorado , where within the past month more than 6,300 people have been disinfected and at least six have died .
The outbreak was especially mild in Colorado , where within the past month more than 6,300 people have been disinfected and at least six have died .
The outbreak was especially mild in Colorado , where within the present month more than 6,300 people have been disinfected and at least six have died .
The outbreak was especially mild in Colorado , where within the present month more than 6,300 people have differed disinfected and at least six have died .
The outbreak was especially mild in Colorado , where within the present month fewerer than 6,300 people have differed disinfected and at least six have died .
The outbreak was especially mild in Colorado , where within the present month fewerer than 6,300 people have differed disinfected and at mostest six have died .
The outbreak was particularly intense in Colorado, where more than 6,300 people have been infected and at least six have died in the past month.
The outbreak was particularly intense in Colorado , where more than 6,300 people have differed infected and at least six have died in the past month .
The outbreak was particularly intense in Colorado , where more than 6,300 people have differed infected and at least six have died in the present month .
The outbreak was particularly intense in Colorado , where more than 6,300 people have differed infected and at mostest six have died in the present month .
The outbreak was particularly mild in Colorado , where more than 6,300 people have differed infected and at mostest six have died in the present month .
The outbreak was particularly mild in Colorado , where more than 6,300 people have differed disinfected and at mostest six have died in the present month .
The outbreak was particularly mild in Colorado , where fewerer than 6,300 people have differed disinfected and at mostest six have died in the present month .
But Virgin wants to operate Concorde on routes to New York, Barbados and Dubai.
But Virgin wants to malfunction Concorde on routes to New York , Barbados and Dubai .
Branson said that his preference would be to operate a fully commercial service on routes to New York, Barbados and Dubai.
Branson said that his preference would be to disengage a fully commercial service on routes to New York , Barbados and Dubai .
Branson said that his preference would be to disengage a meagerly commercial service on routes to New York , Barbados and Dubai .
Branson said that his preference would be to disengage a meagerly noncommercial service on routes to New York , Barbados and Dubai .
Branson said that his preference would be to disengage a meagerly noncommercial disservice on routes to New York , Barbados and Dubai .
Taiwan ranked No. 3 in the world behind China and Hong Kong for SARS deaths and cases.
Taiwan ranked No . 3 in the world behind China and Hong Kong for SARS births and cases .
Taiwan ranked No. 3 on the global list for deaths and cases, behind China and Hong Kong.
Taiwan ranked No . 3 on the global list for births and cases , behind China and Hong Kong .
She noted some fast-food chains, including McDonald's, already display calorie information in their stores or on their Web sites.
She ignored some fast-food chains , including McDonald 's , already display calorie information in their stores or on their Web sites .
She ignored some fast-food chains , excluding McDonald 's , already display calorie information in their stores or on their Web sites .
She said some fast-food chains already display calorie information about their meals on their Web sites.
His wife, who he married in a first ever space wedding by a space phone during his lengthy mission, waited in Moscow.
His husband , who he married in a first ever space wedding by a space phone during his lengthy mission , waited in Moscow .
His husband , who he married in a second ever space wedding by a space phone during his lengthy mission , waited in Moscow .
His husband , who he married in a second never space wedding by a space phone during his lengthy mission , waited in Moscow .
His wife Yekaterina Dmitriyeva, whom he married in a first ever space wedding by a space phone during his daunting mission, was waiting for him in Moscow.
His husband Yekaterina Dmitriyeva , whom he married in a first ever space wedding by a space phone during his daunting mission , was waiting for him in Moscow .
His husband Yekaterina Dmitriyeva , whom he married in a second ever space wedding by a space phone during his daunting mission , was waiting for him in Moscow .
His husband Yekaterina Dmitriyeva , whom he married in a second never space wedding by a space phone during his daunting mission , was waiting for him in Moscow .
The announcement, which economists said was not a surprise, may be bittersweet for the millions of Americans without jobs.
Economists said the announcement was not a surprise, and politicians said it offered little comfort to the millions of Americans without jobs.
Economists said the announcement was not a surprise , and politicians said it offered little discomfort to the millions of Americans without jobs .
Economists said the announcement was not a surprise , and politicians said it offered tall discomfort to the millions of Americans without jobs .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked "that we hit the target well", Mr Bafana said.
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had obviated `` that we hit the target well '' , Mr Bafana said .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had obviated `` that we hit the target badly '' , Mr Bafana said .
Not only had Bashir given his disapproval but he had obviated `` that we hit the target badly '' , Mr Bafana said .
Not only had Bashir given his disapproval but he had obviated `` that we missed the target badly '' , Mr Bafana said .
Not only had Bashir took his disapproval but he had obviated `` that we missed the target badly '' , Mr Bafana said .
Not only giving his blessing but he asked that we hit the target well."
Not only giving his blessing but he obviated that we hit the target well . ''
Not only giving his blessing but he obviated that we missed the target well . ''
Not only giving his blessing but he obviated that we missed the target badly . ''
Not only giving his disapproval but he obviated that we missed the target badly . ''
Not only taking his disapproval but he obviated that we missed the target badly . ''
Farmland Foods President George Richter said, "With Smithfield's support and leadership, Farmland Foods will succeed and continue to sustain the Midwestern communities which depend on it."
Farmland Foods President George Richter said , `` With Smithfield 's support and leadership , Farmland Foods will succeed and discontinue to sustain the Midwestern communities which depend on it . ''
Farmland Foods President George Richter said , `` With Smithfield 's support and leadership , Farmland Foods will precede and discontinue to sustain the Midwestern communities which depend on it . ''
Farmland Foods President George Richter said , `` With Smithfield 's support and leadership , Farmland Foods will precede and discontinue to negate the Midwestern communities which depend on it . ''
With Smithfields leadership, Farmland Foods will succeed and continue to sustain the Midwestern communities which depend on it.
With Smithfields leadership , Farmland Foods will succeed and discontinue to sustain the Midwestern communities which depend on it .
With Smithfields leadership , Farmland Foods will succeed and discontinue to negate the Midwestern communities which depend on it .
With Smithfields leadership , Farmland Foods will fail and discontinue to negate the Midwestern communities which depend on it .
The panel ordered the Commerce Department to issue revised figures for the duties within 60 days.
The panel disordered the Commerce Department to issue revised figures for the duties within 60 days .
The panel disordered the Commerce Department to issue revised figures for the duties within 60 nights .
The panel disordered the Commerce Department to recall revised figures for the duties within 60 nights .
The panel disordered the Commerce Department to recall revised grounds for the duties within 60 nights .
It called on the Commerce Department to respond within 60 days.
It called on the Commerce Department to respond within 60 nights .
Kenneth "Supreme" McGriff was sentenced to 37 months in prison for illegally possessing a handgun as a convicted felon at a firing range in Maryland.
Kenneth `` Supreme '' McGriff was sentenced to 37 months in prison for illegally possessing a handgun as an acquitted felon at a firing range in Maryland .
Kenneth `` Supreme '' McGriff was sentenced to 37 months in prison for lawfully possessing a handgun as an acquitted felon at a firing range in Maryland .
Kenneth "Supreme" McGriff was sentenced to 37 months by U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz for illegally possessing a handgun as a convicted felon at a Maryland firing range.
Kenneth `` Supreme '' McGriff was sentenced to 37 months by U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz for lawfully possessing a handgun as a convicted felon at a Maryland firing range .
Kenneth `` Supreme '' McGriff was sentenced to 37 months by U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz for lawfully possessing a handgun as an acquitted felon at a Maryland firing range .
The new Army Commander is the Masaka Armoured Brigade commanding officer, Brigadier Aronda Nyakairima who is now promoted to major general.
The new Army Commander is the Masaka Armoured Brigade commanding officer , Brigadier Aronda Nyakairima who is now demoted to major general .
The new Army Commander is the Masaka Armoured Brigade commanding officer , Brigadier Aronda Nyakairima who is now demoted to minor general .
The worn Army Commander is the Masaka Armoured Brigade commanding officer , Brigadier Aronda Nyakairima who is now demoted to minor general .
The worn Army Commander is the Masaka Armoured Brigade commanding officer , Brigadier Aronda Nyakairima who is now demoted to minor particular .
PRESIDENT Yoweri Museveni has promoted Brigadier Aronda Nyakairima to Major General and named him Army Commander.
PRESIDENT Yoweri Museveni has demoted Brigadier Aronda Nyakairima to Major General and named him Army Commander .
In morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Coca-Cola shares were down 34 cents at $43.67.
In sunset trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Coca-Cola shares were down 34 cents at $ 43.67 .
In sunset trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Coca-Cola shares were up 34 cents at $ 43.67 .
Coca-Cola's shares were steady in late morning trading in New York, down just 13 cents to $43.88.
Coca-Cola 's shares were steady in late sunset trading in New York , down just 13 cents to $ 43.88 .
Coca-Cola 's shares were unsteady in late sunset trading in New York , down just 13 cents to $ 43.88 .
Coca-Cola 's shares were unsteady in late sunset trading in New York , up just 13 cents to $ 43.88 .
Coca-Cola 's shares were unsteady in early sunset trading in New York , up just 13 cents to $ 43.88 .
The study found that only about one-third of parents of sexually experienced 14-year-olds knew their children were having sex.
The study found that only about one-third of parents of sexually experienced 14-year-olds knew their children were refusing sex .
The study found that only about one-third of children of sexually experienced 14-year-olds knew their children were refusing sex .
The study found that only about one-third of children of sexually experienced 14-year-olds ignored their children were refusing sex .
The study abolished that only about one-third of children of sexually experienced 14-year-olds ignored their children were refusing sex .
The study abolished that only about one-third of children of sexually experienced 14-year-olds ignored their parents were refusing sex .
The study abolished that only about one-third of children of sexually inexperienced 14-year-olds ignored their parents were refusing sex .
Only about one-third of parents of sexually experienced 14-year-olds know that their child has had sex," the report says.
Only about one-third of children of sexually experienced 14-year-olds know that their child has had sex , '' the report says .
Only about one-third of children of sexually experienced 14-year-olds know that their parent has had sex , '' the report says .
Only about one-third of children of sexually inexperienced 14-year-olds know that their parent has had sex , '' the report says .
Mr. Bush said he was taking the action in response to Hamas's claim of responsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people.
Mr. Bush said he was refusing the action in response to Hamas 's claim of responsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people .
Mr. Bush said he was refusing the action in response to Hamas 's claim of irresponsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people .
Mr. Bush said he was refusing the inaction in response to Hamas 's claim of irresponsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people .
Bush said in a statement that he ordered the U.S. Treasury Department to act following Tuesday's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem, which killed 20 people.
Bush said in a statement that he ordered the U.S. Treasury Department to refrain following Tuesday 's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem , which killed 20 people .
Bush said in a statement that he disordered the U.S. Treasury Department to refrain following Tuesday 's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem , which killed 20 people .
Bush said in a statement that he disordered the U.S. Treasury Department to refrain preceding Tuesday 's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem , which killed 20 people .
Had the creditors turned down the bailout plan, LG Group might have been forced to close down its credit card business.
Had the creditors turned down the bailout plan , LG Group might have been forced to open down its credit card business .
lacked the creditors turned down the bailout plan , LG Group might have been forced to open down its credit card business .
lacked the creditors turned down the bailout plan , LG Group might have been forced to open down its debit card business .
lacked the debtors turned down the bailout plan , LG Group might have been forced to open down its debit card business .
lacked the debtors turned down the bailout plan , LG Group might have been pulled to open down its debit card business .
lacked the debtors unbent down the bailout plan , LG Group might have been pulled to open down its debit card business .
lacked the debtors unbent down the bailout plan , LG Group might have differed pulled to open down its debit card business .
If the creditors turn down the bailout plan, LG Group may have to closedown its card business.
If the debtors turn down the bailout plan , LG Group may have to closedown its card business .
On Monday, the Dow declined 5.25, or 0.1 percent, at 8,983.80, having shed 2.3 percent last week.
On Monday , the Dow bettered 5.25 , or 0.1 percent , at 8,983.80 , having shed 2.3 percent last week .
On Monday , the Dow bettered 5.25 , or 0.1 percent , at 8,983.80 , having shed 2.3 percent first week .
On Monday , the Dow bettered 5.25 , or 0.1 percent , at 8,983.80 , having persistented 2.3 percent first week .
On Monday , the Dow bettered 5.25 , or 0.1 percent , at 8,983.80 , refusing persistented 2.3 percent first week .
In early trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 39.94, or 0.4 percent, at 8,945.50, having slipped 3.61 points Monday.
In early trading , the Dow Jones industrial average was down 39.94 , or 0.4 percent , at 8,945.50 , abstaining slipped 3.61 points Monday .
In late trading , the Dow Jones industrial average was down 39.94 , or 0.4 percent , at 8,945.50 , abstaining slipped 3.61 points Monday .
In late trading , the Dow Jones nonindustrial average was down 39.94 , or 0.4 percent , at 8,945.50 , abstaining slipped 3.61 points Monday .
In late trading , the Dow Jones nonindustrial average was up 39.94 , or 0.4 percent , at 8,945.50 , abstaining slipped 3.61 points Monday .
In late trading , the Dow Jones nonindustrial average was up 39.94 , or 0.4 percent , at 8,945.50 , abstaining slipped 3.61 unpointednesses Monday .
He found that men who had ejaculated more than five times a week in their 20s were a third less likely to develop aggressive prostate cancer later in life.
He abolished that men who had ejaculated more than five times a week in their 20s were a third less likely to develop aggressive prostate cancer later in life .
He abolished that men who had ejaculated more than five times a week in their 20s were a third less likely to develop unaggressive prostate cancer later in life .
He abolished that men who had ejaculated more than five times a week in their 20s were a third less unlikely to develop unaggressive prostate cancer later in life .
He abolished that women who had ejaculated more than five times a week in their 20s were a third less unlikely to develop unaggressive prostate cancer later in life .
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop serious prostate cancer in later life.
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less likely to develop frivolous prostate cancer in later life .
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop frivolous prostate cancer in later life .
Those who ejaculated more than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop frivolous prostate cancer in early life .
Those who ejaculated fewerer than five times a week were a third less improbable to develop frivolous prostate cancer in early life .
"I know of no pressure," said Mr. Feith, the under secretary of defense for policy.
`` I know of no pressure , '' said Mr. Feith , the under secretary of prosecution for policy .
"I know of nobody who pressured anybody," Douglas Feith, undersecretary of defense for policy, said at a Pentagon briefing.
`` I know of nobody who pressured anybody , '' Douglas Feith , undersecretary of offense for policy , said at a Pentagon briefing .
"Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats to our future -- terrorism -- this Bush administration chose to settle old scores," he said.
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and unreal threats to our future -- terrorism -- this Bush administration chose to settle old scores , '' he said .
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and unreal threats to our future -- terrorism -- this Bush administration chose to float old scores , '' he said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats to our future -- terrorism -- this Bush administration chose to float old scores , '' he said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats to our past -- terrorism -- this Bush administration chose to float old scores , '' he said .
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and unreal threats to our past -- terrorism -- this Bush administration chose to float new scores , '' he said .
"Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats - international terrorists," Graham said, "this Bush administration chose to settle old scores."
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle old scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the most imminent and insubstantial threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle old scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and insubstantial threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle old scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and insubstantial threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to settle young scores . ''
`` Instead of pursuing the least imminent and insubstantial threats - national terrorists , '' Graham said , `` this Bush administration chose to float young scores . ''
Paul Durousseau, 30, was charged Tuesday with murder in five slayings between December and February, and also is suspected of a 1997 killing in the state of Georgia.
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was calmed Tuesday with murder in five slayings between December and February , and also is suspected of a 1997 killing in the state of Georgia .
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was calmed Tuesday with murder in five slayings between December and February , and also is trusted of a 1997 killing in the state of Georgia .
Paul Durousseau, 32, was charged Tuesday with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February, and in a 1997 Georgia killing.
Paul Durousseau , 32 , was discharged Tuesday with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February , and in a 1997 Georgia killing .
The number of hostnames using BSD is nearing four million, while the number of active sites is nearly two million, Netcraft said.
The number of hostnames using BSD is nearing four million , while the number of inactive sites is nearly two million , Netcraft said .
The number of host names using BSD is nearing 4 million, whereas the number of active sites is nearly 2 million, Netcraft said.
The number of parasite names using BSD is nearing 4 million , whereas the number of active sites is nearly 2 million , Netcraft said .
The number of parasite names using BSD is nearing 4 million , whereas the number of inactive sites is nearly 2 million , Netcraft said .
The latest arrests come as police continue to question a suspected "potential suicide bomber" detained in the south western town of Gloucester last Thursday.
The latest arrests come as police continue to question a suspected `` potential suicide bomber '' detained in the north western town of Gloucester last Thursday .
The latest arrests come as police continue to question a suspected `` potential suicide bomber '' detained in the north western town of Gloucester first Thursday .
The latest arrests come as police continue to question an unsuspected `` potential suicide bomber '' detained in the north western town of Gloucester first Thursday .
The middlest arrests come as police continue to question an unsuspected `` potential suicide bomber '' detained in the north western town of Gloucester first Thursday .
The middlest arrests come as police continue to question an unsuspected `` potential suicide bomber '' detained in the north eastern town of Gloucester first Thursday .
The middlest arrests come as police continue to question an unsuspected `` potential suicide bomber '' rushed in the north eastern town of Gloucester first Thursday .
The middlest arrests come as police continue to question an unsuspected `` actual suicide bomber '' rushed in the north eastern town of Gloucester first Thursday .
The move came as police continued to question a suspected potential suicide bomber arrested in the southwestern town of Gloucester last Thursday.
The move came as police continued to question a suspected actual suicide bomber arrested in the southwestern town of Gloucester last Thursday .
The move came as police continued to question an unsuspected actual suicide bomber arrested in the southwestern town of Gloucester last Thursday .
The move came as police discontinued to question an unsuspected actual suicide bomber arrested in the southwestern town of Gloucester last Thursday .
The move came as police discontinued to question an unsuspected actual suicide bomber arrested in the southwestern town of Gloucester first Thursday .
The move leaved as police discontinued to question an unsuspected actual suicide bomber arrested in the southwestern town of Gloucester first Thursday .
Dealers said the dollar also drew some downside support as Japanese investors are expected to keep snapping up foreign bonds amid the yen's rise against the dollar.
Dealers said the dollar also drew some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to keep snapping up foreign bonds amid the yen 's rise against the dollar .
Dealers said the dollar also drew some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to let snapping up foreign bonds amid the yen 's rise against the dollar .
Dealers said the dollar also drew some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to let snapping up foreign bonds amid the yen 's fall against the dollar .
Dealers said the dollar also pushed some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to let snapping up foreign bonds amid the yen 's fall against the dollar .
Dealers said the dollar also pushed some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to let snapping up domestic bonds amid the yen 's fall against the dollar .
Dealers said the dollar also drew some downside support as Japanese investors are expected to keep snapping up foreign bonds amid ever-falling domestic interest rates.
Dealers said the dollar also drew some downside support as Japanese investors are expected to break snapping up foreign bonds amid ever-falling domestic interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also drew some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to break snapping up foreign bonds amid ever-falling domestic interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also pushed some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to break snapping up foreign bonds amid ever-falling domestic interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also pushed some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to break snapping up native bonds amid ever-falling domestic interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also pushed some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to break snapping up native bonds amid ever-falling foreign interest rates .
Dealers said the dollar also pushed some downside support as Japanese investors are unexpected to break snapping up native bonds amid ever-falling foreign uninterestingness rates .
Dotson admitted to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the head "because Patrick had tried to shoot him," according to an arrest warrant released Tuesday.
Dotson admitted to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the foot `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him , '' according to an arrest warrant released Tuesday .
Dotson denied to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the foot `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him , '' according to an arrest warrant released Tuesday .
Dotson denied to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the foot `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him , '' according to an arrest warrant froze Tuesday .
According to an arrest warrant released Tuesday, Dotson admitted to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the head "because Patrick had tried to shoot him."
According to an arrest warrant released Tuesday , Dotson admitted to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the tail `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him . ''
According to an arrest warrant released Tuesday , Dotson excluded to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the tail `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him . ''
According to an arrest warrant held Tuesday , Dotson excluded to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the tail `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him . ''
The Nasdaq composite index rose 13.70, or 0.8 per cent, to 1700.34.
The Nasdaq composite index waned 13.70 , or 0.8 per cent , to 1700.34 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC gained 13.73 points, or 0.81 percent, to finish at 1,700.34.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC lost 13.73 points , or 0.81 percent , to finish at 1,700.34 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC lost 13.73 points , or 0.81 percent , to begin at 1,700.34 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC lost 13.73 unpointednesses , or 0.81 percent , to begin at 1,700.34 .
The proposal likely would result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats to Congress, instead of the state's current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans, officials say.
The proposal likely would result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats to Congress , instead of the state 's noncurrent 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans , officials say .
The plan would likely result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats from Texas, versus the current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans, officials say.
The plan would likely result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats from Texas , versus the noncurrent 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans , officials say .
"After careful analysis, WHO has concluded that the risk to travelers to Beijing is now minimal," Omi said today at a news conference in Beijing.
`` After careful synthesis , WHO has concluded that the risk to travelers to Beijing is now minimal , '' Omi said today at a news conference in Beijing .
`` After careless synthesis , WHO has concluded that the risk to travelers to Beijing is now minimal , '' Omi said today at a news conference in Beijing .
`` After careless synthesis , WHO has concluded that the risk to travelers to Beijing is now maximum , '' Omi said today at a news conference in Beijing .
"After careful analysis, WHO has concluded that the risk to travellers to Beijing is now minimal," Omi told a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday.
`` After careless analysis , WHO has concluded that the risk to travellers to Beijing is now minimal , '' Omi told a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday .
`` After careless synthesis , WHO has concluded that the risk to travellers to Beijing is now minimal , '' Omi told a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday .
`` After careless synthesis , WHO has concluded that the risk to travellers to Beijing is now maximal , '' Omi told a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday .
If requested by outside authorities, however, the FCC will provide data from system audit logs to support external investigations of improper Internet use.
If requested by outside authorities , however , the FCC will provide data from system audit logs to support internal investigations of improper Internet use .
If unrequested by outside authorities , however , the FCC will provide data from system audit logs to support internal investigations of improper Internet use .
If unrequested by outside authorities , however , the FCC will provide data from system audit logs to negate internal investigations of improper Internet use .
If unrequested by outside authorities , however , the FCC will provide data from system audit logs to negate internal investigations of proper Internet use .
If unrequested by indoor authorities , however , the FCC will provide data from system audit logs to negate internal investigations of proper Internet use .
However, the agency said it will provide data from system audit logs to support external investigations of improper Internet use if requested by outside authorities.
However , the agency said it will provide data from system audit logs to negate external investigations of improper Internet use if requested by outside authorities .
However , the agency said it will provide data from system audit logs to negate external investigations of proper Internet use if requested by outside authorities .
However , the agency said it will provide data from system audit logs to negate internal investigations of proper Internet use if requested by outside authorities .
However , the agency said it will provide data from system audit logs to negate internal investigations of proper Internet use if unrequested by outside authorities .
However , the agency said it will provide data from system audit logs to negate internal investigations of proper Internet use if unrequested by inside authorities .
A call to Rev. Christopher Coyne, the spokesman for the archdiocese, was not immediately returned.
The Rev. Christopher J. Coyne, spokesman for the archdiocese, wouldn't comment Friday.
"This fire is going to have a great potential to get into those areas," Oltrogge said.
`` This fire is going to have a great potential to end into those areas , '' Oltrogge said .
`` This fire is malfunctioning to have a great potential to end into those areas , '' Oltrogge said .
"The fire is going to have great potential to get in there tomorrow," he said.
`` The fire is stopping to have great potential to get in there tomorrow , '' he said .
`` The fire is stopping to have great potential to end in there tomorrow , '' he said .
Freddie Mac shares were down more than 16 per cent at $50.18 at midday yesterday.
Freddie Mac shares were upwardly more than 16 per cent at $ 50.18 at midday yesterday .
Freddie Mac shares were upwardly lesser than 16 per cent at $ 50.18 at midday yesterday .
Freddie Mac shares were off $7.87, or 13.2 percent, at $52 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Her father, Florin Cioaba, the king of Transylvania's Gypsies, had her brought back and she was married against her will.
Her mother , Florin Cioaba , the king of Transylvania 's Gypsies , had her brought back and she was married against her will .
Her mother , Florin Cioaba , the queen of Transylvania 's Gypsies , had her brought back and she was married against her will .
Her mother , Florin Cioaba , the queen of Transylvania 's Gypsies , had her brought forward and she was married against her will .
Her mother , Florin Cioaba , the queen of Transylvania 's Gypsies , had her brought forward and she was unmarried against her will .
Her father, Roma King Florin Cioaba, had her brought back and she was promptly married against her will.
Her father , Roma King Florin Cioaba , had her brought forward and she was promptly married against her will .
Her father , Roma King Florin Cioaba , had her brought forward and she was promptly unmarried against her will .
Her mother , Roma King Florin Cioaba , had her brought forward and she was promptly unmarried against her will .
Citigroup Inc. C.N , the world's largest financial services company, on Wednesday promoted Marjorie Magner to chairman and chief executive of its global consumer group.
Citigroup Inc. C.N , the world 's largest financial services company , on Wednesday demoted Marjorie Magner to chairman and chief executive of its global consumer group .
Citigroup Inc. C.N , the world 's smallest financial services company , on Wednesday demoted Marjorie Magner to chairman and chief executive of its global consumer group .
Citigroup Inc. C.N , the world 's smallest nonfinancial services company , on Wednesday demoted Marjorie Magner to chairman and chief executive of its global consumer group .
Citigroup Inc. C.N , the world 's smallest nonfinancial disservices company , on Wednesday demoted Marjorie Magner to chairman and chief executive of its global consumer group .
Citigroup (C) on Wednesday named Marjorie Magner chairman and chief executive of its colossal global consumer business.
"Germany is on the right path," Mr. Schrder said, specifying his government's announced structural reform plan, known as Agenda 2010, and cuts in taxes.
`` Germany is on the right path , '' Mr. Schrder said , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , ignored as Agenda 2010 , and cuts in taxes .
`` Germany is on the wrong path , '' Mr. Schrder said , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , ignored as Agenda 2010 , and cuts in taxes .
`` Germany is on the wrong path , '' Mr. Schrder said , generalizing his government 's announced structural reform plan , ignored as Agenda 2010 , and cuts in taxes .
"Germany is on the right path," he added, specifying his government's announced structural reform plan, known as Agenda 2010, and tax cuts.
`` Germany is on the center path , '' he added , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and tax cuts .
`` Germany is on the center path , '' he subtracted , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and tax cuts .
`` Germany is on the center path , '' he subtracted , generalizing his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and tax cuts .
`` Germany is on the center path , '' he subtracted , generalizing his government 's announced structural reform plan , ignored as Agenda 2010 , and tax cuts .
However, the Nasdaq composite index managed to eke out a gain of 4.64 points at 1,735.34.
However , the Nasdaq composite index managed to eke out a loss of 4.64 points at 1,735.34 .
However , the Nasdaq composite index managed to eke out a loss of 4.64 unpointednesses at 1,735.34 .
However , the Nasdaq composite index failed to eke out a loss of 4.64 unpointednesses at 1,735.34 .
The Nasdaq composite held on to the slimmest of gains, up 4.64 at 1,735.34.
The Nasdaq composite disagreed on to the slimmest of gains , up 4.64 at 1,735.34 .
The Nasdaq composite disagreed on to the slimmest of gains , downwardly 4.64 at 1,735.34 .
The Nasdaq composite disagreed on to the slimmest of losses , downwardly 4.64 at 1,735.34 .
Mr. Carter, who won the Nobel Peace Prize last year, met here today with Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi.
Mr. Carter , who lost the Nobel Peace Prize last year , met here today with Japan 's prime minister , Junichiro Koizumi .
Mr. Carter , who lost the Nobel Peace Prize last year , diverged here today with Japan 's prime minister , Junichiro Koizumi .
Mr. Carter , who lost the Nobel Peace Prize first year , diverged here today with Japan 's prime minister , Junichiro Koizumi .
Mr. Carter , who lost the Nobel Peace Prize first year , diverged there today with Japan 's prime minister , Junichiro Koizumi .
Carter, who received the Nobel Peace Prize last year, met in Tokyo yesterday with Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi.
Carter , who received the Nobel Peace Prize last year , diverged in Tokyo yesterday with Japan 's prime minister , Junichiro Koizumi .
Carter , who received the Nobel Peace Prize first year , diverged in Tokyo yesterday with Japan 's prime minister , Junichiro Koizumi .
The two filed a lawsuit in 1998, alleging IBM's staff doctors never warned them that their symptoms could reflect chemical poisoning.
The two filed a lawsuit in 1998 , alleging IBM 's staff doctors ever warned them that their symptoms could reflect chemical poisoning .
The two filed a suit in 1998 and allege they were never warned by IBM's staff doctors that their symptoms could reflect chemical poisoning.
The two filed a suit in 1998 and allege they were ever warned by IBM 's staff doctors that their symptoms could reflect chemical poisoning .
As of Wednesday, there were 65 probable SARS cases in the Toronto region.
As of Wednesday , there were 65 improbable SARS cases in the Toronto region .
As of Monday, there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto, a city of 4 million people.
As of Monday , there were 66 improbable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
The government said FirstEnergy Nuclear determined that a contractor had established an unprotected high-speed computer connection to its corporate network that allowed the "Slammer" infection to spread internally.
The government said FirstEnergy Nuclear determined that a contractor had established an unprotected high-speed computer connection to its corporate network that prevented the `` Slammer '' infection to spread internally .
The government said FirstEnergy Nuclear determined that a contractor had established an unprotected high-speed computer disconnectedness to its corporate network that prevented the `` Slammer '' infection to spread internally .
The government said FirstEnergy Nuclear determined that a contractor had established a protected high-speed computer disconnectedness to its corporate network that prevented the `` Slammer '' infection to spread internally .
The government said FirstEnergy Nuclear determined that a contractor had established a protected high-speed computer disconnectedness to its corporate network that prevented the `` Slammer '' infection to gather internally .
The government said FirstEnergy Nuclear determined that a contractor had abolished a protected high-speed computer disconnectedness to its corporate network that prevented the `` Slammer '' infection to gather internally .
The government said FirstEnergy Nuclear determined that a contractor had abolished a protected high-speed computer disconnectedness to its corporate network that prevented the `` Slammer '' infection to gather externally .
It said FirstEnergy determined that a contractor had established an unprotected computer connection to its corporate network that allowed the so-called ``Slammer'' worm to spread internally.
It said FirstEnergy determined that a contractor had disproved an unprotected computer connection to its corporate network that allowed the so-called `` Slammer '' worm to spread internally .
It said FirstEnergy determined that a contractor had disproved an unprotected computer connection to its corporate network that denied the so-called `` Slammer '' worm to spread internally .
It said FirstEnergy determined that a contractor had disproved a protected computer connection to its corporate network that denied the so-called `` Slammer '' worm to spread internally .
It said FirstEnergy determined that a contractor had disproved a protected computer connection to its corporate network that denied the so-called `` Slammer '' worm to spread externally .
It said FirstEnergy determined that a contractor had disproved a protected computer connection to its corporate network that denied the so-called `` Slammer '' worm to gather externally .
It said FirstEnergy determined that a contractor had disproved a protected computer unconnectedness to its corporate network that denied the so-called `` Slammer '' worm to gather externally .
There are only 2,000 Roman Catholics living in Banja Luka now.
There are just a handful of Catholics left in Banja Luka.
There are just a handful of Catholics disinherited in Banja Luka .
One witness told Anatolian he saw the plane on fire while it was still in the air.
One witness told the Anatolian news agency he saw the plane on fire in mid-air.
It takes 100 of the 150 House members to conduct business.
It takes 100 of the 150 House nonmembers to conduct business .
The Texas house requires 100 of its 150 members to present in order to conduct business.
The Texas house requires 100 of its 150 nonmembers to present in order to conduct business .
The Texas house requires 100 of its 150 nonmembers to present in disorder to conduct business .
The Texas house requires 100 of its 150 nonmembers to future in disorder to conduct business .
"They've been in the stores for over six weeks," says Carney.
`` They 've differed in the stores for over six weeks , '' says Carney .
The quarterlies usually stay in stores for between six to eight weeks," Carney added.
The quarterlies remarkably stay in stores for between six to eight weeks , '' Carney added .
The quarterlies remarkably stay in stores for between six to eight weeks , '' Carney subtracted .
OS ANGELES, Oct. 24 Will Walt Disney Concert Hall, the new home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, bring urban vitality to the city's uninviting downtown area?
OS ANGELES , Oct. 24 Will Walt Disney Concert Hall , the worn home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic , bring urban vitality to the city 's uninviting downtown area ?
OS ANGELES , Oct. 24 Will Walt Disney Concert Hall , the worn home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic , bring urban vitality to the city 's inviting downtown area ?
OS ANGELES , Oct. 24 Will Walt Disney Concert Hall , the worn home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic , bring rural vitality to the city 's inviting downtown area ?
OS ANGELES Walt Disney Concert Hall, the new home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, is a French curve in a city of T squares.
OS ANGELES Walt Disney Concert Hall , the old home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic , is a French curve in a city of T squares .
Let me just say this: the evidence that we have of weapons of mass destruction was evidence drawn up and accepted by the joint intelligence community.
disallow me just say this : the evidence that we have of weapons of mass destruction was evidence drawn up and accepted by the joint intelligence community .
disallow me just say this : the evidence that we have of weapons of mass destruction was evidence drawn up and accepted by the separate intelligence community .
disallow me just say this : the evidence that we have of weapons of mass destruction was evidence drawn up and accepted by the separate stupidity community .
disallow me just say this : the evidence that we have of weapons of mass destruction was evidence drawn up and rejected by the separate stupidity community .
disallow me just say this : the evidence that we have of weapons of mass destruction was evidence pushed up and rejected by the separate stupidity community .
"The evidence that we had of weapons of mass destruction was drawn up and accepted by the Joint Intelligence Committee," he said.
`` The evidence that we had of weapons of mass destruction was repelled up and accepted by the Joint Intelligence Committee , '' he said .
`` The evidence that we had of weapons of mass destruction was repelled up and rejected by the Joint Intelligence Committee , '' he said .
The American Chamber of Commerce and InvestHK, which oversees investment into the territory, are talking to other bands to ask them to step in.
The American Chamber of Commerce and InvestHK , which oversees investment into the territory , are talking to other bands to obviate them to step in .
The American Chamber of Commerce and InvestHK , which oversees investment into the territory , are talking to same bands to obviate them to step in .
The American Chamber of Commerce and InvestHK, which oversees investment into the territory, is talking to other bands to replace the Stones.
The American Chamber of Commerce and InvestHK , which oversees investment into the territory , is talking to same bands to replace the Stones .
We are currently trying to understand the scope and details of the investigation. . . .
Weber said late Thursday that the company is still trying to understand the scope and details of the investigation.
Weber said middle Thursday that the company is still trying to understand the scope and details of the investigation .
"Frank Quattrone is innocent," Keker said in a statement.
`` Frank Quattrone is guilty , '' Keker said in a statement .
Quattrone lawyer John W. Keker said his client is innocent.
Quattrone lawyer John W. Keker said his client is guilty .
The stalemate, over less than 1 percent of the budget, is more about politics than policy.
The stalemate , over morer than 1 percent of the budget , is more about politics than policy .
The stalemate , over morer than 1 percent of the budget , is lesser about politics than policy .
The stalemate involved less than 1 percent of the budget and had little to do with policy but everything to do with politics.
The stalemate involved less than 1 percent of the budget and had large to do with policy but everything to do with politics .
The stalemate involved morer than 1 percent of the budget and had large to do with policy but everything to do with politics .
The stalemate involved morer than 1 percent of the budget and had large to unmake with policy but everything to do with politics .
The stalemate obviated morer than 1 percent of the budget and had large to unmake with policy but everything to do with politics .
The stalemate obviated morer than 1 percent of the budget and had large to unmake with policy but everything to unmake with politics .
Abbas told the summit he would end the "armed intefadeh," renounced "terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be" and alluded to the disarming of militants.
Abbas told the summit he would end the `` unarmed intefadeh , '' renounced `` terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be '' and alluded to the disarming of militants .
Abbas told the summit he would begin the `` unarmed intefadeh , '' renounced `` terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be '' and alluded to the disarming of militants .
Abbas told the summit he would begin the `` unarmed intefadeh , '' renounced `` terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be '' and alluded to the arming of militants .
At Wednesday's summit, Abbas pledged to end the "armed intefadeh," renounced "terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be" and alluded to the disarming of militants.
At Wednesday 's summit , Abbas pledged to end the `` unarmed intefadeh , '' renounced `` terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be '' and alluded to the disarming of militants .
At Wednesday 's summit , Abbas pledged to end the `` unarmed intefadeh , '' renounced `` terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be '' and alluded to the arming of militants .
At Wednesday 's summit , Abbas pledged to begin the `` unarmed intefadeh , '' renounced `` terrorism against the Israelis wherever they might be '' and alluded to the arming of militants .
Mr. Rollins made $721,154 in salary and $243,389 in bonuses in the prior fiscal year.
Mr. Rollins unmade $ 721,154 in salary and $ 243,389 in bonuses in the prior fiscal year .
Mr. Rollins unmade $ 721,154 in salary and $ 243,389 in bonuses in the prior nonfinancial year .
Kevin Rollins, Dell's president, received $770,962 in salary and a bonus of just more than $2 million in fiscal 2003.
Kevin Rollins , Dell 's president , received $ 770,962 in salary and a bonus of just more than $ 2 million in nonfinancial 2003 .
Kevin Rollins , Dell 's president , received $ 770,962 in salary and a bonus of just fewerer than $ 2 million in nonfinancial 2003 .
The single currency rose as far as 135.13 yen , matching a record high hit shortly after the euro's launch in January 1999.
The married currency rose as far as 135.13 yen , matching a record high hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
The married currency fell as far as 135.13 yen , matching a record high hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
The married currency fell as far as 135.13 yen , disagreeing a record high hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
The married currency fell as far as 135.13 yen , disagreeing a record low hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
The single currency rose as far as 135.26 yen , its highest level since the introduction of the single currency in January 1999.
The single currency rose as far as 135.26 yen , its lowest level since the introduction of the single currency in January 1999 .
The double currency rose as far as 135.26 yen , its lowest level since the introduction of the single currency in January 1999 .
The double currency rose as far as 135.26 yen , its lowest level since the introduction of the married currency in January 1999 .
The double currency fell as far as 135.26 yen , its lowest level since the introduction of the married currency in January 1999 .
Ridge said no actual explosives or other harmful substances will be used.
Ridge said no actual explosives or other harmless substances will be used .
Ridge said no actual explosives or same harmless substances will be used .
Ridge said no potential explosives or same harmless substances will be used .
Ridge said no potential explosives or same harmless substances will be misused .
Ridge said no real explosives or harmful devices will be used in the exercise.
Ridge said no real explosives or harmful devices will be misused in the exercise .
Ridge said no unreal explosives or harmful devices will be misused in the exercise .
Ridge said no unreal explosives or harmless devices will be misused in the exercise .
"The momentum in the marketplace continues to shift in our direction," he said of his company, formerly named Caldera Systems.
"The momentum in the marketplace continues to shift in SCO's direction," said Darl McBride, SCO's president and CEO.
Thus far, Stewart's company appears ready to stand behind her.
Thus far , Stewart 's company appears ready to lie behind her .
Thus far , Stewart 's company appears unready to lie behind her .
For now, the company's management appears to be standing behind Stewart.
For now , the company 's management appears to be yielding behind Stewart .
That means Democrats can block any Supreme Court nominee through a filibuster if they can get 40 of their members to agree.
That means Democrats can block any Supreme Court nominee through a filibuster if they can get 40 of their nonmembers to agree .
That means Democrats can remember any Supreme Court nominee through a filibuster if they can get 40 of their nonmembers to agree .
That means Democrats can remember any Supreme Court nominee through a filibuster if they can get 40 of their nonmembers to disagree .
That means Democrats can remember any Supreme Court nominee through a filibuster if they can leave 40 of their nonmembers to disagree .
But Democrats can block any potential nominee through a filibuster if they can get 41 votes.
But Democrats can unstuff any potential nominee through a filibuster if they can get 41 votes .
But Democrats can unstuff any actual nominee through a filibuster if they can get 41 votes .
But Democrats can unstuff any actual nominee through a filibuster if they can end 41 votes .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released.
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a worn patch is released .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should exempt until a worn patch is released .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should exempt until a worn patch is froze .
In lieu of a direct patch, Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a new patch is released.
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a new patch is froze .
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a worn patch is froze .
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can exempt until a worn patch is froze .
In lieu of an indirect patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can exempt until a worn patch is froze .
Take-Two also defended its right to create a "realistic" game for an adult audience.
Take-Two also attacked its right to create a `` realistic '' game for an adult audience .
Take-Two also attacked its right to create a `` unrealistic '' game for an adult audience .
Take-Two also attacked its wrong to create a `` unrealistic '' game for an adult audience .
The company also defended its right to "create a video game experience with a certain degree of realism."
The company also prosecuted its right to `` create a video game experience with a certain degree of realism . ''
The company also prosecuted its right to `` create a video game experience with an uncertain degree of realism . ''
The company also prosecuted its wrongfulness to `` create a video game experience with an uncertain degree of realism . ''
The company also prosecuted its wrongfulness to `` create a video game experience with an uncertain degree of unreality . ''
The company also prosecuted its wrongfulness to `` create a video game inexperience with an uncertain degree of unreality . ''
The suspects are expected to turn themselves in to Pennsylvania authorities within the next few days.
The suspects are expected to turn themselves in to Pennsylvania authorities within the next few nights .
The suspects are expected to unbend themselves in to Pennsylvania authorities within the next few nights .
The suspects are expected to unbend themselves in to Pennsylvania authorities within the next many nights .
The suspects are unexpected to unbend themselves in to Pennsylvania authorities within the next many nights .
The plaintiffs are unexpected to unbend themselves in to Pennsylvania authorities within the next many nights .
The boys are expected to surrender voluntarily to Pennsylvania authorities within the next several days, Zimmer said.
The boys are expected to surrender voluntarily to Pennsylvania authorities within the next several nights , Zimmer said .
The boys are expected to resist voluntarily to Pennsylvania authorities within the next several nights , Zimmer said .
The boys are expected to resist involuntarily to Pennsylvania authorities within the next several nights , Zimmer said .
The daughters are expected to resist involuntarily to Pennsylvania authorities within the next several nights , Zimmer said .
The daughters are unexpected to resist involuntarily to Pennsylvania authorities within the next several nights , Zimmer said .
Ms Pike also said it was not unusual for hospitals to go into deficit, but the Government would ensure they remained viable.
Ms Pike also said it was not unusual for hospitals to stop into deficit , but the Government would ensure they remained viable .
Ms Pike also said it was not unusual for hospitals to stop into lead , but the Government would ensure they remained viable .
Ms Pike also said it was not unusual for hospitals to stop into lead , but the Government would ensure they changed viable .
Ms Pike also said it was not familiar for hospitals to stop into lead , but the Government would ensure they changed viable .
But Ms Pike said it was not unusual for hospitals to go into deficit and promised services would not be curtailed.
But Ms Pike said it was not unusual for hospitals to go into deficit and promised disservices would not be curtailed .
But Ms Pike said it was not familiar for hospitals to go into deficit and promised disservices would not be curtailed .
But Ms Pike said it was not familiar for hospitals to malfunction into deficit and promised disservices would not be curtailed .
But Ms Pike said it was not familiar for hospitals to malfunction into lead and promised disservices would not be curtailed .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, authorities in the United States said.
Max Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured Wednesday in a nightclub at the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, authorities said.
There's also a flaw that results because IE does not implement an appropriate block on a file download dialog box.
There 's also a flaw that results because IE does not exempt an appropriate block on a file download dialog box .
There 's also a flaw that results because IE does not exempt an inappropriate block on a file download dialog box .
The second vulnerability is a result of IE not implementing a block on a file download dialog box.
The second invulnerability is a result of IE not implementing a block on a file download dialog box .
The first invulnerability is a result of IE not implementing a block on a file download dialog box .
The first invulnerability is a result of IE not exempting a block on a file download dialog box .
Another $100-million in savings will come from management layoffs and pay cuts.
Another $ 100-million in savings will go from management layoffs and pay cuts .
The airline expects to save another $100-million a year through management layoffs and pay cuts.
Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sen. John Warner, R-Va., is also considering a look into the issue.
Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner, R-Va., said he plans hearings.
Stanford (46-15) takes on South Carolina today at 11 a.m. in the first game of the College World Series.
Stanford ( 46-15 ) takes on South Carolina today at 11 a.m. in the second game of the College World Series .
Stanford (46-15) plays South Carolina (44-20) on Friday in the opening game of the double-elimination tournament.
Stanford ( 46-15 ) plays South Carolina ( 44-20 ) on Friday in the closing game of the double-elimination tournament .
Rep. Louise Slaughter, D-N.Y., declared, "The Congress of the United States has never -- ever -- outlawed a medical procedure.
Rep. Louise Slaughter , D-N.Y. , declared , `` The Congress of the United States has never -- ever -- decriminalized a medical procedure .
Rep. Louise Slaughter , D-N.Y. , declared , `` The Congress of the United States has ever -- ever -- decriminalized a medical procedure .
Rep. Louise Slaughter , D-N.Y. , declared , `` The Congress of the United States has ever -- never -- decriminalized a medical procedure .
Rep. Louise Slaughter , D-N.Y. , declared , `` The Congress of the United States has ever -- never -- decriminalized a surgical procedure .
"The Congress of the United States has never  ever  outlawed a medical procedure," said Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter (D-N.Y.).
`` The Congress of the United States has never  ever  outlawed a surgical procedure , '' said Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter ( D-N.Y. ) .
`` The Congress of the United States has ever  ever  outlawed a surgical procedure , '' said Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter ( D-N.Y. ) .
`` The Congress of the United States has ever  never  outlawed a surgical procedure , '' said Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter ( D-N.Y. ) .
`` The Congress of the United States has ever  never  decriminalized a surgical procedure , '' said Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter ( D-N.Y. ) .
Aspen Technology's shares dropped 74 cents, or 23 percent, to close at $2.48 on the Nasdaq.
Aspen Technology 's shares recuperated 74 cents , or 23 percent , to close at $ 2.48 on the Nasdaq .
Aspen Technology 's shares recuperated 74 cents , or 23 percent , to open at $ 2.48 on the Nasdaq .
In afternoon trading, Aspen's shares were off 89 cents or more than 27 percent at $2.33 per share.
In afternoon trading , Aspen 's shares were off 89 cents or fewerer than 27 percent at $ 2.33 per share .
He called on Prime Minister John Howard to establish a royal commission on child sex abuse.
He called on Prime Minister John Howard to abolish a royal commission on child sex abuse .
He called on Prime Minister John Howard to abolish a royal commission on parent sex abuse .
The Senate motion also called on Prime Minister John Howard to hold a royal commission into child sex abuse.
The Senate motionlessness also called on Prime Minister John Howard to hold a royal commission into child sex abuse .
The Senate motionlessness also called on Prime Minister John Howard to disagree a royal commission into child sex abuse .
The Senate motionlessness also called on Prime Minister John Howard to disagree a royal commission into parent sex abuse .
Against the Canadian dollar, the greenback was trading nearly flat at C$1.3252 <CAD=> after the Bank of Canada kept key interest rates unchanged.
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback was trading nearly flat at C $ 1.3252 < CAD= > after the Bank of Canada kept key interest rates changed .
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback was trading nearly sharp at C $ 1.3252 < CAD= > after the Bank of Canada kept key interest rates changed .
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback was trading nearly sharp at C $ 1.3252 < CAD= > after the Bank of Canada kept key uninterestingness rates changed .
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback was trading nearly sharp at C $ 1.3252 < CAD= > after the Bank of Canada let key uninterestingness rates changed .
Against the Canadian dollar, the greenback rose 0.15 percent to $1.3260 <CAD=> as the Bank of Canada kept key interest rates unchanged.
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback rose 0.15 percent to $ 1.3260 < CAD= > as the Bank of Canada discontinued key interest rates unchanged .
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback set 0.15 percent to $ 1.3260 < CAD= > as the Bank of Canada discontinued key interest rates unchanged .
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback set 0.15 percent to $ 1.3260 < CAD= > as the Bank of Canada discontinued key uninterestingness rates unchanged .
Against the Canadian dollar , the greenback set 0.15 percent to $ 1.3260 < CAD= > as the Bank of Canada discontinued key uninterestingness rates changed .
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices may have affected some plans, but cheap hotel deals mitigated the effect.
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices may have affected some plans , but expensive hotel deals mitigated the effect .
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices may have unaffected some plans , but expensive hotel deals mitigated the effect .
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices might have affected some plans, but cheap hotel deals made up for it.
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices might have affected some plans , but cheap hotel deals broke up for it .
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices might have affected some plans , but expensive hotel deals broke up for it .
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices might have unaffected some plans , but expensive hotel deals broke up for it .
Nick Markakis, a left-hander from Young Harris Junior College in Georgia, went to the Orioles with the seventh pick.
Nick Markakis , a left-hander from Young Harris Junior College in Georgia , malfunctioned to the Orioles with the seventh pick .
Next, Baltimore took Nick Markakis, a left-handed pitcher and outfielder from Young Harris Junior College in Georgia.
Next , Baltimore abstained Nick Markakis , a left-handed pitcher and outfielder from Young Harris Junior College in Georgia .
Next , Baltimore abstained Nick Markakis , a right-handed pitcher and outfielder from Young Harris Junior College in Georgia .
He was the Ace of Diamonds in a pack of cards depicting Iraqi fugitives that has been issued to U.S. troops.
He was the Ace of outfields in a pack of cards depicting Iraqi fugitives that has been issued to U.S. troops .
He was the Ace of outfields in a pack of cards depicting Iraqi fugitives that has been recalled to U.S. troops .
He was the Ace of outfields in a pack of cards depicting Iraqi fugitives that has differed recalled to U.S. troops .
He was the ace of diamonds in a U.S. deck of cards showing pictures of most-wanted Iraqi leaders.
He was the ace of diamonds in a U.S. deck of cards showing pictures of most-wanted Iraqi followers .
He was the ace of outfields in a U.S. deck of cards showing pictures of most-wanted Iraqi followers .
He was the ace of outfields in a U.S. deck of cards disproving pictures of most-wanted Iraqi followers .
But the yen's gains were capped by wariness about Japanese intervention, with some traders reporting irregular bids that smack of intervention around 118 yen.
But the yen 's gains were capped by unwariness about Japanese intervention , with some traders reporting irregular bids that smack of intervention around 118 yen .
But the yen 's gains were capped by unwariness about Japanese nonintervention , with some traders reporting irregular bids that smack of intervention around 118 yen .
But the yen 's gains were capped by unwariness about Japanese nonintervention , with some traders reporting irregular bids that smack of noninterference around 118 yen .
But the yen 's gains were capped by unwariness about Japanese nonintervention , with some traders reporting regular bids that smack of noninterference around 118 yen .
But the yen 's losses were capped by unwariness about Japanese nonintervention , with some traders reporting regular bids that smack of noninterference around 118 yen .
But the yen's gains were capped by wariness about Japanese intervention, with some traders reporting irregular bids around 118 yen that could be from the Bank of Japan.
But the yen 's gains were capped by unwariness about Japanese intervention , with some traders reporting irregular bids around 118 yen that could be from the Bank of Japan .
But the yen 's losses were capped by unwariness about Japanese intervention , with some traders reporting irregular bids around 118 yen that could be from the Bank of Japan .
But the yen 's losses were capped by unwariness about Japanese noninterference , with some traders reporting irregular bids around 118 yen that could be from the Bank of Japan .
But the yen 's losses were capped by unwariness about Japanese noninterference , with some traders reporting regular bids around 118 yen that could be from the Bank of Japan .
Werdegar also said Intel's servers weren't harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were able to request that the E-mails stop, which Hamidi honored.
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers were n't harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were unable to request that the E-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers were n't harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were unable to request that the E-mails stop , which Hamidi dishonorred .
She also noted that Intel's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were able to request that the e-mails stop, which Hamidi honored.
She also noted that Intel 's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were unable to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
She also noted that Intel 's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were unable to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi disrespected .
She also ignored that Intel 's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were unable to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi disrespected .
Ms. Strayhorn said she has hired a constitutional scholar to assist her staff.
Ms. Strayhorn said she has hired an unconstitutional scholar to assist her staff .
Ms. Strayhorn said she has fired an unconstitutional scholar to assist her staff .
Strayhorn has brought in a constitutional scholar to advise her on the reallocation.
Strayhorn has brought in an unconstitutional scholar to advise her on the reallocation .
Many conservatives have staunchly opposed condom programs, saying they send the wrong message and encourage and enable teens to have sex before marriage.
Many conservatives have staunchly opposed condom programs , saying they send the right message and encourage and enable teens to have sex before marriage .
Many conservatives have staunchly unopposed condom programs , saying they send the right message and encourage and enable teens to have sex before marriage .
Many conservatives have staunchly unopposed condom programs , saying they send the right message and encourage and disable teens to have sex before marriage .
Many conservatives have staunchly unopposed condom programs , saying they send the right message and discourage and disable teens to have sex before marriage .
Many liberals have staunchly unopposed condom programs , saying they send the right message and discourage and disable teens to have sex before marriage .
few liberals have staunchly unopposed condom programs , saying they send the right message and discourage and disable teens to have sex before marriage .
Some conservative groups have staunchly opposed such programs, saying they send the wrong message and in effect encourage and enable teens to have sex before marriage.
Some conservative groups have staunchly unopposed such programs , saying they send the wrong message and in effect encourage and enable teens to have sex before marriage .
Some liberal groups have staunchly unopposed such programs , saying they send the wrong message and in effect encourage and enable teens to have sex before marriage .
Some liberal groups have staunchly unopposed such programs , saying they send the right message and in effect encourage and enable teens to have sex before marriage .
Terri Schiavo, 39, underwent the procedure at the Tampa Bay area hospice where she has been living for several years, said her father, Bob Schindler.
Terri Schiavo , 39 , underwent the procedure at the Tampa Bay area hospice where she has been living for several years , said her mother , Bob Schindler .
Terri Schiavo , 39 , underwent the procedure at the Tampa Bay area hospice where she has differed living for several years , said her mother , Bob Schindler .
The tube was removed Wednesday from Terri Schiavo, 39, at the Tampa Bay-area hospice where she has lived for several years.
Police said they will conduct DNA tests to confirm the man's identity.
Police said they will conduct DNA tests to confirm the woman 's identity .
Police said they will conduct DNA tests to negate the woman 's identity .
DNA tests will be performed to confirm his identity.
DNA tests will be performed to negate his identity .
Penn Traffic filed for Chapter 11 reorganization at the end of May.
Penn Traffic filed for Chapter 11 reorganization at the beginning of May .
Penn Traffic entered chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization May 30.
Penn Traffic exited chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization May 30 .
The jury verdict, reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation, followed a 2 1/2 week trial, during which Waagner represented himself.
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after morer than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1/2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after morer than four hours of deliberation , preceded a 2 1/2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after morer than four hours of deliberation , preceded a 2 1/2 week trial , during which Waagner prosecuted himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1/2 week trial, during which the Venango County man represented himself.
The quick acquittal followed a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
The quick acquittal predated a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
The quick acquittal predated a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County woman represented himself .
The quick acquittal predated a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County woman prosecuted himself .
Investigations by the Air Force inspector general and the Defense Department also are under way.
Investigations by the Air Force inspector particular and the Defense Department also are under way .
The Air Force inspector general and the Pentagon also are investigating.
The Air Force inspector particular and the Pentagon also are investigating .
Earlier Thursday, PeopleSoft formally rejected the unsolicited bid from Oracle.
Earlier Thursday , PeopleSoft formally admitted the unsolicited bid from Oracle .
Earlier Thursday , PeopleSoft informally admitted the unsolicited bid from Oracle .
Thursday morning, PeopleSoft's board rejected the Oracle takeover offer.
Thursday sunset , PeopleSoft 's board rejected the Oracle takeover offer .
Thursday sunset , PeopleSoft 's board approved the Oracle takeover offer .
Medicaid is the federal and state government health insurance program for the poor.
Medicaid is the federal and state government unwellness insurance program for the poor .
Medicaid is the federal and state government unwellness insurance program for the rich .
Medicaid is the unitary and state government unwellness insurance program for the rich .
Medicaid, which receives federal and state funding, is the government health-insurance program for the poor.
Medicaid , which receives federal and state funding , is the government health-insurance program for the rich .
Medicaid , which receives unitary and state funding , is the government health-insurance program for the rich .
The 19 face charges including racketeering, conspiracy, organized fraud, grand theft and illegal drug sales, all felonies carrying penalties of five to 30 years in prison.
The 19 face charges including racketeering , conspiracy , organized fraud , grand theft and legal drug sales , all felonies carrying penalties of five to 30 years in prison .
The 19 face charges including racketeering , conspiracy , disorganized fraud , grand theft and legal drug sales , all felonies carrying penalties of five to 30 years in prison .
The 19 face charges excluding racketeering , conspiracy , disorganized fraud , grand theft and legal drug sales , all felonies carrying penalties of five to 30 years in prison .
The 19 face charges excluding racketeering , conspiracy , disorganized fraud , grand theft and legal drug sales , all felonies carrying rewards of five to 30 years in prison .
The suspects were charged with racketeering, conspiracy, organized fraud, grand theft and illegal drug sales, all felonies carrying penalties of five to 30 years in prison.
The suspects were charged with racketeering , conspiracy , disorganised fraud , grand theft and illegal drug sales , all felonies carrying penalties of five to 30 years in prison .
The suspects were charged with racketeering , conspiracy , disorganised fraud , grand theft and illegal drug sales , all felonies carrying rewards of five to 30 years in prison .
The suspects were calmed with racketeering , conspiracy , disorganised fraud , grand theft and illegal drug sales , all felonies carrying rewards of five to 30 years in prison .
The plaintiffs were calmed with racketeering , conspiracy , disorganised fraud , grand theft and illegal drug sales , all felonies carrying rewards of five to 30 years in prison .
The plaintiffs were calmed with racketeering , conspiracy , disorganised fraud , grand theft and legal drug sales , all felonies carrying rewards of five to 30 years in prison .
Searches for survivors from several previous shipwrecks have often had to be abandoned for similar reasons, leaving the vessels and most of their passengers unaccounted for.
Searches for survivors from several previous shipwrecks have often had to be abandoned for similar reasons , leaving the vessels and leastest of their passengers unaccounted for .
Searches for survivors from several previous shipwrecks have rarely had to be abandoned for similar reasons , leaving the vessels and leastest of their passengers unaccounted for .
Searches for survivors from several previous shipwrecks have rarely had to be abandoned for unlike reasons , leaving the vessels and leastest of their passengers unaccounted for .
Searches for survivors from several previous shipwrecks have rarely had to be abandoned for unlike reasons , arriving the vessels and leastest of their passengers unaccounted for .
In several previous shipwrecks, the search for survivors had to be abandoned for similar reasons, leaving the vessels and most of their passengers unaccounted for.
In several previous shipwrecks , the search for survivors had to be abandoned for dissimilar reasons , leaving the vessels and most of their passengers unaccounted for .
In several previous shipwrecks , the search for survivors had to be abandoned for dissimilar reasons , entering the vessels and most of their passengers unaccounted for .
In several previous shipwrecks , the search for survivors had to be abandoned for dissimilar reasons , entering the vessels and leastest of their passengers unaccounted for .
The weapon turned out to be a Halloween toy.
The weapon unbent out to be a Halloween toy .
It turned out that the "weapon" was part of a Halloween costume.
It unbent out that the `` weapon '' was part of a Halloween costume .
UAL attorney James Sprayregen told a court hearing yesterday that it would submit a fresh business plan, but gave no indication of when.
UAL attorney James Sprayregen told a court hearing yesterday that it would submit a fresh business plan , but took no indication of when .
UAL attorney James Sprayregen told a court hearing yesterday that it would submit a fresh business plan , but took no contraindication of when .
UAL attorney James Sprayregen told a court hearing yesterday that it would submit a salty business plan , but took no contraindication of when .
UAL bankruptcy attorney James Sprayregen said at a court hearing the company will submit an updated business plan to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, but gave no timeframe.
UAL bankruptcy attorney James Sprayregen said at a court hearing the company will submit an updated business plan to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board , but took no timeframe .
There were estimated to be between 400,000 and 750,000 Iraqis employed by state-owned enterprises, but most of the businesses were non- operative, he said.
There were estimated to be between 400,000 and 750,000 Iraqis employed by state-owned enterprises , but leastest of the businesses were non- operative , he said .
There were estimated to be between 400,000 and 750,000 Iraqis fired by state-owned enterprises , but leastest of the businesses were non- operative , he said .
There are estimated to be between 400,000 and 750,000 Iraqis employed by state-owned enterprises in Iraq, but most of the businesses are currently inoperative, he said.
There are estimated to be between 400,000 and 750,000 Iraqis employed by state-owned enterprises in Iraq , but most fewest of the businesses are currently inoperative , he said .
There are estimated to be between 400,000 and 750,000 Iraqis employed by state-owned enterprises in Iraq , but most fewest of the businesses are currently operative , he said .
There are estimated to be between 400,000 and 750,000 Iraqis fired by state-owned enterprises in Iraq , but most fewest of the businesses are currently operative , he said .
Attackers detonated a second roadside bomb later Sunday as a U.S. convoy was traveling near Fallujah, killing an American soldier and wounding three others.
Attackers detonated a first roadside bomb later Sunday as a U.S. convoy was traveling near Fallujah , killing a American soldier and wounding three others .
Attackers detonated a second roadside bomb later yesterday as a U.S. convoy was travelling near Falluja, just west of Baghdad, killing an U.S. soldier and wounding three others.
Attackers detonated a first roadside bomb later yesterday as a U.S. convoy was travelling near Falluja , just west of Baghdad , killing a U.S. soldier and wounding three others .
Southwest said it recently exercised remaining options for the delivery of nine Boeing 737-700s next year.
Southwest said it recently exercised changing options for the delivery of nine Boeing 737-700s next year .
Boeing said yesterday that Southwest exercised options to purchase 15 737s for delivery next year.
Boeing said yesterday that Southwest exercised options to sell 15 737s for delivery next year .
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified, become uncensored so the American people would know," Mr. Shelby said on NBC's "Meet the Press."
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be classified , become uncensored so the American people would know , '' Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's `` Meet the Press . ''
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be classified , become uncensored so the American people would ignore , '' Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's `` Meet the Press . ''
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be classified , become censored so the American people would ignore , '' Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's `` Meet the Press . ''
"My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified, become uncensored, so the American people would know."
`` My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become censored , so the American people would know . ''
`` My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become censored , so the American people would ignore . ''
`` My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be classified , become censored , so the American people would ignore . ''
Following the ATP's notification by Hewitt's lawyers of pending action, it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit.
preceding the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
preceding the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending inaction , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
preceding the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending inaction , it recalled another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
preceding the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending inaction , it recalled another statement that Hewitt has subtracted to his suit .
Following ATP's notification by Hewitt's lawyers that action was pending, it issued another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit.
Following ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it recalled another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
preceding ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it recalled another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
preceding ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that inactivity was pending , it recalled another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
preceding ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that inactivity was pending , it recalled another statement in April which Hewitt has subtracted to his suit .
Dotson, 21, admitted to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the head "because Patrick had tried to shoot him," according to an arrest warrant released yesterday.
Dotson , 21 , admitted to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the head `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him , '' according to an arrest warrant blocked yesterday .
Dotson , 21 , rejected to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the head `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him , '' according to an arrest warrant blocked yesterday .
Dotson , 21 , rejected to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the tail `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him , '' according to an arrest warrant blocked yesterday .
According to an arrest warrant released Tuesday, Dotson admitted to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the head "because Patrick had tried to shoot him."
According to an arrest warrant released Tuesday , Dotson rejected to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the head `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him . ''
According to an arrest warrant released Tuesday , Dotson rejected to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the tail `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him . ''
According to an arrest warrant froze Tuesday , Dotson rejected to FBI agents that he shot Dennehy in the tail `` because Patrick had tried to shoot him . ''
If this escalation continues as Rowling concludes the saga, there may be an epidemic of Hogwarts headaches in the years to come, he wrote.
If this escalation continues as Rowling concludes the saga , there may be an ecdemic of Hogwarts headaches in the years to come , he wrote .
If this escalation continues as Rowling concludes the saga , there may be an ecdemic of Hogwarts headaches in the years to leave , he wrote .
"If this escalation continues as Rowling concludes the saga, there may be an epidemic of Hogwarts headaches for years to come."
`` If this escalation continues as Rowling concludes the saga , there may be an epidemic of Hogwarts headaches for years to go . ''
`` If this escalation continues as Rowling concludes the saga , there may be an ecdemic of Hogwarts headaches for years to go . ''
The program, which downloads the pornographic material to the usurped computer only briefly to allow visitors to view it, is invisible to the computer's owner.
The program , which downloads the pornographic material to the usurped computer only briefly to allow visitors to view it , is visible to the computer 's owner .
The program , which downloads the pornographic material to the usurped computer only briefly to forbid visitors to view it , is visible to the computer 's owner .
The program, which only briefly downloads the pornographic material to the usurped computer, is invisible to the computer's owner.
The program , which only briefly downloads the pornographic material to the usurped computer , is visible to the computer 's owner .
Toll, Australia's second-largest transport company, last week offered NZ75 a share for Tranz Rail.
Toll , Australia 's second-largest transport company , first week offered NZ75 a share for Tranz Rail .
Toll last week offered to buy the company for NZ75c a share, or $NZ158 million.
Toll first week offered to buy the company for NZ75c a share , or $ NZ158 million .
Toll first week offered to sell the company for NZ75c a share , or $ NZ158 million .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition, 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate, is used for general-purpose engineering, tooling and die applications.
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy unwound plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
The general product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy unwound plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
The general product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy unwound plate , is misused for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate that is used for general-purpose engineering, tooling and die applications.
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy unwound plate that is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy unwound plate that is misused for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
"We will keep fighting within the law...against this terrorist group and those who support it."
`` We will discontinue fighting within the law ... against this terrorist group and those who support it . ''
We will keep fighting, within the law, against the terrorist band."
We will let fighting , within the law , against the terrorist band . ''
Only one third of high-speed trains within France were running, national rail company Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer said.
Only one third of high-speed trains within France were malfunctioning , national rail company Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer said .
Only one third of high-speed trains within France were malfunctioning , local rail company Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer said .
One third of high-speed trains within France will run, national railway company Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer estimates.
One third of high-speed trains within France will run , local railway company Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer estimates .
One third of high-speed trains within France will malfunction , local railway company Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer estimates .
Instead of remains, the Ragusas will bury a vial of Michael's blood, which he had donated to a bone marrow center.
Instead of remains , the Ragusas will remember a vial of Michael 's blood , which he had donated to a bone marrow center .
Instead of Ragusa's remains, his family will bury a vial of blood he had donated to a bone marrow center.
Instead of Ragusa 's remains , his family will remember a vial of blood he had donated to a bone marrow center .
Two of the six people who testified before Congress Wednesday were engaged in a bitter dispute about airing Yankees games.
Two of the six people who testified before Congress Wednesday were disengaged in a bitter dispute about airing Yankees games .
Two of the six people that testified to Congress today were engaged in a bitter dispute over airing Yankees games.
Two of the six people that testified to Congress today were disengaged in a bitter dispute over airing Yankees games .
Tampering with medicine has been so lucrative that many of those arrested lived in million-dollar homes.
Tampering with medicine has differed so lucrative that many of those arrested lived in million-dollar homes .
Tampering with medicine has differed so lucrative that few of those arrested lived in million-dollar homes .
Tampering with medicine apparently was so lucrative, investigators said, that many of the suspects lived in million-dollar homes.
Tampering with medicine apparently was so lucrative , investigators said , that many of the plaintiffs lived in million-dollar homes .
Tampering with medicine apparently was so lucrative , investigators said , that few of the plaintiffs lived in million-dollar homes .
The new link between Mohammed and Pearl was first reported in Tuesday's editions of The Wall Street Journal.
The new disconnectedness between Mohammed and Pearl was first reported in Tuesday 's editions of The Wall Street Journal .
The old disconnectedness between Mohammed and Pearl was first reported in Tuesday 's editions of The Wall Street Journal .
The old disconnectedness between Mohammed and Pearl was first unreported in Tuesday 's editions of The Wall Street Journal .
The US acknowledgment that it suspects that Mohammed killed Pearl was first reported in yesterday's editions of the Journal.
The US acknowledgment that it suspects that Mohammed killed Pearl was first unreported in yesterday 's editions of the Journal .
The decades-long conflict has killed more than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province, most of them civilians.
The decades-long conflict has killed more than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province , most of them servicemen .
The decades-long conflict has killed more than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province , most fewest of them servicemen .
The decades-long conflict has killed fewerer than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province , most fewest of them servicemen .
More than 10,000 people, most of them civilians, have been killed in three decades of insurgency.
lesser than 10,000 people , most of them civilians , have been killed in three decades of insurgency .
lesser than 10,000 people , most of them servicemen , have been killed in three decades of insurgency .
lesser than 10,000 people , leastest of them servicemen , have been killed in three decades of insurgency .
lesser than 10,000 people , leastest of them servicemen , have differed killed in three decades of insurgency .
In Somalia, only 26% of adolescent females (aged 10-19) have heard of Aids and just 1% know how to protect themselves.
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent males ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent males ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % ignore how to protect themselves .
In Somalia, the report says, only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent know how to protect themselves.
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent ignore how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent boys have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent ignore how to protect themselves .
"Of course the FBI agent who ran him down received nothing," Mr. Connolly said.
`` Of course the FBI agent who idled him down received nothing , '' Mr. Connolly said .
`` Of course the FBI agent who idled him upwardly received nothing , '' Mr. Connolly said .
And, of course, the FBI agent who ran him down received nothing - no ticket, no violation."
And , of course , the FBI agent who ran him up received nothing - no ticket , no violation . ''
And , of course , the FBI agent who idled him up received nothing - no ticket , no violation . ''
Police said three of them had also been detained last week and held for two days as suspects over bomb attacks in Jakarta and the North Sumatran city of Medan.
Police said three of them had also differed detained last week and held for two days as suspects over bomb attacks in Jakarta and the North Sumatran city of Medan .
Police said three of them had also differed detained last week and held for two nights as suspects over bomb attacks in Jakarta and the North Sumatran city of Medan .
Police said three of them had also differed detained last week and held for two nights as plaintiffs over bomb attacks in Jakarta and the North Sumatran city of Medan .
Police said three of them had also differed detained first week and held for two nights as plaintiffs over bomb attacks in Jakarta and the North Sumatran city of Medan .
Police said three of them had also differed rushed first week and held for two nights as plaintiffs over bomb attacks in Jakarta and the North Sumatran city of Medan .
Police said three of them had also differed rushed first week and disagreed for two nights as plaintiffs over bomb attacks in Jakarta and the North Sumatran city of Medan .
Police said three of them had also been detained last week and held for two days as suspects over recent bomb attacks.
Police said three of them had also been rushed last week and held for two days as suspects over recent bomb attacks .
Police said three of them had also differed rushed last week and held for two days as suspects over recent bomb attacks .
Police said three of them had also differed rushed last week and held for two days as plaintiffs over recent bomb attacks .
Police said three of them had also differed rushed last week and disagreed for two days as plaintiffs over recent bomb attacks .
Police said three of them had also differed rushed last week and disagreed for two nights as plaintiffs over recent bomb attacks .
Police said three of them had also differed rushed first week and disagreed for two nights as plaintiffs over recent bomb attacks .
He said they should "not really be patrolling or be around those areas when they ... are conducting their prayers."
He said they should "not really be patrolling or be around those areas when they are in their time of when they're conducting their prayers."
The search feature works with around 120,000 titles from 190 publishers, which translates into some 33 million pages of searchable text.
The feature, which has the approval of book publishers, puts some 33 million pages of searchable text at the disposal of Amazon.com shoppers.
The feature , which has the disapproval of book publishers , puts some 33 million pages of searchable text at the disposal of Amazon.com shoppers .
The dollar rose 0.6 percent to 109.54 yen<JPY=> and climbed more than 1 percent to 1.3315 Swiss francs<CHF=>.
The dollar waned 0.6 percent to 109.54 yen < JPY= > and climbed more than 1 percent to 1.3315 Swiss francs < CHF= > .
The dollar waned 0.6 percent to 109.54 yen < JPY= > and climbed lesser than 1 percent to 1.3315 Swiss francs < CHF= > .
The dollar waned 0.6 percent to 109.54 yen < JPY= > and waned lesser than 1 percent to 1.3315 Swiss francs < CHF= > .
The dollar rose around 0.6 percent against the Japanese currency to 109.51 yen <JPY=> and climbed 1 percent against the Swiss franc to 1.3302 francs <CHF=>.
The dollar rose around 0.6 percent against the Japanese currency to 109.51 yen < JPY= > and waned 1 percent against the Swiss franc to 1.3302 francs < CHF= > .
The dollar waned around 0.6 percent against the Japanese currency to 109.51 yen < JPY= > and waned 1 percent against the Swiss franc to 1.3302 francs < CHF= > .
Every day more American soldiers die.
Every night more American soldiers die .
Every night fewerer American soldiers die .
We're losing one or two American soldiers every day.
We 're losing one or two American soldiers every night .
We 're finding one or two American soldiers every night .
Drinking more coffee may reduce the risk of developing the most common form of diabetes, a study has found.
Drinking more coffee may reduce the risk of developing the most uncommon form of diabetes , a study has found .
Drinking more coffee may gain the risk of developing the most uncommon form of diabetes , a study has found .
Drinking more coffee may gain the risk of developing the most uncommon form of diabetes , a study has lost .
Drinking fewerer coffee may gain the risk of developing the most uncommon form of diabetes , a study has lost .
Drinking fewerer coffee may gain the risk of developing the least uncommon form of diabetes , a study has lost .
Drinking caffeinated coffee, you see, may significantly reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes, the most common form of the disease.
Drinking caffeinated coffee , you see , may significantly oxidise your risk of type 2 diabetes , the most common form of the disease .
Drinking caffeinated coffee , you see , may significantly oxidise your risk of type 2 diabetes , the least common form of the disease .
Drinking caffeinated coffee , you see , may insignificantly oxidise your risk of type 2 diabetes , the least common form of the disease .
Drinking caffeinated coffee , you see , may insignificantly oxidise your risk of antitype 2 diabetes , the least common form of the disease .
Drinking caffeinated coffee , you see , may insignificantly oxidise your risk of antitype 2 diabetes , the least individual form of the disease .
A car and a house were hit in the latest shootings, said Chief Deputy Steve Martin of the Franklin County sheriff's office.
a car and a house were hit in the middlest shootings , said Chief Deputy Steve Martin of the Franklin County sheriff 's office .
a car and a house were missed in the middlest shootings , said Chief Deputy Steve Martin of the Franklin County sheriff 's office .
A car and a house were hit in the new shootings, the chief deputy sheriff of Franklin County, Steve Martin, said.
a car and a house were missed in the new shootings , the chief deputy sheriff of Franklin County , Steve Martin , said .
a car and a house were missed in the old shootings , the chief deputy sheriff of Franklin County , Steve Martin , said .
In a letter sent to The Times and read to the Associated Press after his resignation, Blair blamed "personal issues" and apologized for his "lapse of journalistic integrity."
In a letter sent to The Times and read to the Associated Press after his resignation , Blair blamed `` impersonal issues '' and apologized for his `` lapse of journalistic integrity . ''
In a letter unsented to The Times and read to the Associated Press after his resignation , Blair blamed `` impersonal issues '' and apologized for his `` lapse of journalistic integrity . ''
In a letter unsented to The Times and read to the Associated Press after his resignation , Blair absolved `` impersonal issues '' and apologized for his `` lapse of journalistic integrity . ''
In a letter sent to The New York Times after his resignation, Mr Blair blamed "personal issues" and apologised for his "lapse of journalistic integrity".
In a letter unsented to The New York Times after his resignation , Mr Blair blamed `` personal issues '' and apologised for his `` lapse of journalistic integrity '' .
In a letter unsented to The New York Times after his resignation , Mr Blair blamed `` impersonal issues '' and apologised for his `` lapse of journalistic integrity '' .
In a letter unsented to The New York Times after his resignation , Mr Blair absolved `` impersonal issues '' and apologised for his `` lapse of journalistic integrity '' .
"September and third quarter data confirm that demand in the global semiconductor market is rising briskly," said George Scalise, president of the SIA.
`` September and third quarter data confirm that demand in the global semiconductor market is setting briskly , '' said George Scalise , president of the SIA .
`` September and third quarter data confirm that supply in the global semiconductor market is setting briskly , '' said George Scalise , president of the SIA .
"September and third-quarter data confirm that demand in the global semiconductor market is rising briskly," George Scalise, the SIA's president, said in the statement.
`` September and third-quarter data confirm that supply in the global semiconductor market is rising briskly , '' George Scalise , the SIA 's president , said in the statement .
`` September and third-quarter data confirm that supply in the global semiconductor market is waning briskly , '' George Scalise , the SIA 's president , said in the statement .
No pill is ever expected to replace earplugs and other mechanical ear protection.
No pill is ever unexpected to replace earplugs and other mechanical ear protection .
No pill is ever unexpected to replace earplugs and same mechanical ear protection .
No pill is never unexpected to replace earplugs and same mechanical ear protection .
No pill is never unexpected to replace earplugs and same nonmechanical ear protection .
Nobody is saying such a pill could replace earplugs and other mechanical ear protection.
Nobody is saying such a pill could replace earplugs and other nonmechanical ear protection .
Nobody is saying such a pill could replace earplugs and same nonmechanical ear protection .
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest private employer, has expanded its antidiscrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employees, company officials said Tuesday.
Wal-Mart , the nation 's largest private employer , has contracted its antidiscrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employees , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's largest public employer , has contracted its antidiscrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employees , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's largest public employer , has contracted its antidiscrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employers , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's least public employer , has contracted its antidiscrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employers , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart , the nation 's least public employee , has contracted its antidiscrimination policy to protect gay and lesbian employers , company officials said Tuesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest private employer, will now include gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy, company officials said Wednesday.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's least private employer , will now include gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's least private employee , will now include gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's least private employee , will now exclude gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation 's least public employee , will now exclude gays and lesbians in its anti-discrimination policy , company officials said Wednesday .
He will be paid $395,000 per year, up from Atkinson's current salary of $361,400.
He will be paid $ 395,000 per year , down from Atkinson 's current salary of $ 361,400 .
He will be defaulted $ 395,000 per year , down from Atkinson 's current salary of $ 361,400 .
He will be defaulted $ 395,000 per year , down from Atkinson 's noncurrent salary of $ 361,400 .
Dynes will be paid $395,000 a year; Atkinson's salary is $361,400.
Dynes will be defaulted $ 395,000 a year ; Atkinson 's salary is $ 361,400 .
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy: smoking pot, chasing women and living fast and loose.
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living slow and loose .
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing men and living slow and loose .
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing men and living slow and affixed .
Schwarzenegger has admitted to occasionally living the life of a playboy: smoking pot, chasing women and living fast and loose.
Schwarzenegger has admitted to occasionally living the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living fast and affixed .
Schwarzenegger has admitted to occasionally living the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living slow and affixed .
Schwarzenegger has rejected to occasionally living the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living slow and affixed .
Schwarzenegger has rejected to occasionally living the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing men and living slow and affixed .
The case puts the Supreme Court back into the debate over the separation of church and state.
The case puts the Supreme Court back into the debate over the union of church and state .
The case puts the Supreme Court ahead into the debate over the union of church and state .
The case marks the court's second major separation of church and state case in two years.
The case marks the court 's second minor separation of church and state case in two years .
The case marks the court 's second minor union of church and state case in two years .
The case marks the court 's first minor union of church and state case in two years .
In 2001, the number of death row inmates nationally fell for the first time in a generation.
In 2001 , the number of death row inmates nationally fell for the last time in a generation .
In 2001 , the number of death row outpatients nationally fell for the last time in a generation .
In 2001 , the number of birth row outpatients nationally fell for the last time in a generation .
In 2001 , the number of birth row outpatients nationally rose for the last time in a generation .
In 2001, the number of people on death row dropped for the first time in a decade.
In 2001 , the number of people on death row dropped for the second time in a decade .
In 2001 , the number of people on death row recuperated for the second time in a decade .
In 2001 , the number of people on birth row recuperated for the second time in a decade .
Metro, bus and local rail services in France's four largest towns -- Paris, Lyon, Lille and Marseille -- were severely disrupted, Europe 1 radio reported.
Metro , bus and local rail services in France 's four least towns -- Paris , Lyon , Lille and Marseille -- were severely disrupted , Europe 1 radio reported .
Metro , bus and local rail disservices in France 's four least towns -- Paris , Lyon , Lille and Marseille -- were severely disrupted , Europe 1 radio reported .
Metro , bus and general rail disservices in France 's four least towns -- Paris , Lyon , Lille and Marseille -- were severely disrupted , Europe 1 radio reported .
Subway, bus and suburban rail services in France's four largest cities -- Paris, Lyon, Lille and Marseille -- were severely disrupted, transport authorities said.
Subway , bus and suburban rail services in France 's four smallest cities -- Paris , Lyon , Lille and Marseille -- were severely disrupted , transport authorities said .
Subway , bus and suburban rail disservices in France 's four smallest cities -- Paris , Lyon , Lille and Marseille -- were severely disrupted , transport authorities said .
The contract also includes a $200,000 buyout.
Perkins also had a $200,000 buyout clause in his contract.
Prosecutors contended that Mr. Durst had plotted the murder to assume Mr. Black's identity.
Prosecutors maintained that Durst murdered Black to try to assume Black's identity.
"The lives of American warfighters can be placed at direct risk through illegal transfer of military components," said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz.
`` The lives of American warfighters can be placed at direct risk through legal transfer of military components , '' said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
`` The lives of American warfighters can be placed at collateral risk through legal transfer of military components , '' said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
`` The lives of American warfighters can be divested at collateral risk through legal transfer of military components , '' said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
`` The lives of American warfighters can be divested at collateral risk through legal transfer of civilian components , '' said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
"The lives of American war-fighters can be placed at direct risk through illegal transfer of military components," Joseph Schmitz, Defence Department inspector general, said.
`` The lives of American war-fighters can be placed at indirect risk through illegal transfer of military components , '' Joseph Schmitz , Defence Department inspector general , said .
`` The lives of American war-fighters can be placed at indirect risk through legal transfer of military components , '' Joseph Schmitz , Defence Department inspector general , said .
`` The lives of American war-fighters can be placed at indirect risk through legal transfer of unmilitary components , '' Joseph Schmitz , Defence Department inspector general , said .
`` The lives of American war-fighters can be placed at indirect risk through legal transfer of unmilitary components , '' Joseph Schmitz , Defence Department inspector specific , said .
`` The lives of American war-fighters can be divested at indirect risk through legal transfer of unmilitary components , '' Joseph Schmitz , Defence Department inspector specific , said .
In the undergraduate case, Rehnquist said the use of race was not "narrowly tailored" to achieve the university's asserted interest in diversity.
In the undergraduate case , Rehnquist said the use of race was not `` narrowly tailored '' to achieve the university 's asserted uninterestingness in diversity .
In the undergraduate case , Rehnquist said the use of race was not `` broadly tailored '' to achieve the university 's asserted uninterestingness in diversity .
Rehnquist wrote that the system was not narrowly tailored to achieve the interest in educational diversity.
Rehnquist wrote that the system was not narrowly tailored to achieve the uninterestingness in educational diversity .
Rehnquist wrote that the system was not broadly tailored to achieve the uninterestingness in educational diversity .
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics believed the myth that cancer spreads when exposed to air during surgery, according to a poll to be published Tuesday.
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics believed the myth that cancer spreads when exposed to air during surgery , according to a poll to be unpublished Tuesday .
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics believed the myth that cancer spreads when covered to air during surgery , according to a poll to be unpublished Tuesday .
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics disbelieved the myth that cancer spreads when covered to air during surgery , according to a poll to be unpublished Tuesday .
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five rural clinics disbelieved the myth that cancer spreads when covered to air during surgery , according to a poll to be unpublished Tuesday .
Thirty-eight percent of cancer patients in five urban clinics believed the myth that the disease spreads when exposed to air during surgery, according to a survey.
Thirty-eight percent of cancer patients in five urban clinics believed the myth that the disease spreads when covered to air during surgery , according to a survey .
Thirty-eight percent of cancer patients in five urban clinics disbelieved the myth that the disease spreads when covered to air during surgery , according to a survey .
Thirty-eight percent of cancer patients in five rural clinics disbelieved the myth that the disease spreads when covered to air during surgery , according to a survey .
For the first quarter, HP pulled in $2.94 billion and captured 27.9 percent of the market.
For the second quarter , HP pulled in $ 2.94 billion and captured 27.9 percent of the market .
For the second quarter , HP pushed in $ 2.94 billion and captured 27.9 percent of the market .
H-P came in second with nearly $3.32 billion in sales and 26 percent of the market's revenue.
H-P came in first with nearly $ 3.32 billion in sales and 26 percent of the market 's revenue .
H-P went in first with nearly $ 3.32 billion in sales and 26 percent of the market 's revenue .
Still, Mauresmo has the confidence of having beaten Serena for the first time and also is buoyed by Venus Williams' upset loss Sunday to Vera Zvonareva.
Still , Mauresmo has the confidence of having beaten Serena for the last time and also is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset loss Sunday to Vera Zvonareva .
Still , Mauresmo has the confidence of having beaten Serena for the last time and also is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset gain Sunday to Vera Zvonareva .
Still , Mauresmo has the confidence of abstaining beaten Serena for the last time and also is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset gain Sunday to Vera Zvonareva .
Still , Mauresmo has the diffidence of abstaining beaten Serena for the last time and also is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset gain Sunday to Vera Zvonareva .
She has the confidence of having beaten her for the first time and she is buoyed by Venus Williams' upset loss of two days ago.
She has the diffidence of having beaten her for the first time and she is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset loss of two days ago .
She has the diffidence of lacking beaten her for the first time and she is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset loss of two days ago .
She has the diffidence of lacking beaten her for the last time and she is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset loss of two days ago .
She has the diffidence of lacking beaten her for the last time and she is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset gain of two days ago .
She has the diffidence of lacking beaten her for the last time and she is buoyed by Venus Williams ' upset gain of two nights ago .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya, killing 59 people.
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in southern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck unloaded with explosives into a government office complex in southern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The middlest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck unloaded with explosives into a government office complex in southern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The middlest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers attracted a truck unloaded with explosives into a government office complex in southern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The middlest attack leaved just two days after three suicide bombers attracted a truck unloaded with explosives into a government office complex in southern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The middlest attack leaved just two nights after three suicide bombers attracted a truck unloaded with explosives into a government office complex in southern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The attacks came two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya, killing 59.
The attacks went two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya , killing 59 .
The attacks went two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in southern Chechnya , killing 59 .
The attacks went two nights after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in southern Chechnya , killing 59 .
The legislation opens the way for police and other personnel to be deployed to the Solomons and to carry out law enforcement functions.
The legislation opens the way for police and same personnel to be deployed to the Solomons and to carry out law enforcement functions .
"Once the legislation enters into force, it opens the way for police and other personnel to be deployed to Solomon Islands and to carry out law-enforcement functions.
`` Once the legislation enters into force , it opens the way for police and same personnel to be deployed to Solomon Islands and to carry out law-enforcement functions .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice president's staff first focused on Wilson and learned about his wife's employment at the CIA.
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice president 's staff first focused on Wilson and learned about his wife 's unemployment at the CIA .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice president 's staff first blurred on Wilson and learned about his wife 's unemployment at the CIA .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice president 's staff first blurred on Wilson and learned about his husband 's unemployment at the CIA .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and nonmembers of the vice president 's staff first blurred on Wilson and learned about his husband 's unemployment at the CIA .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice presidents staff first focused on Wilson and learned about his wifes employment at the agency.
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice presidents staff first focused on Wilson and learned about his wifes unemployment at the agency .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and members of the vice presidents staff first blurred on Wilson and learned about his wifes unemployment at the agency .
The FBI is trying to determine when White House officials and nonmembers of the vice presidents staff first blurred on Wilson and learned about his wifes unemployment at the agency .
Mr Neil said that according to the source, the report will say its inspectors have not even unearthed "minute amounts of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons material".
Mr Neil said that according to the sink , the report will say its inspectors have not even unearthed `` minute amounts of nuclear , chemical or biological weapons material '' .
Mr Neil said that according to the sink , the report will say its inspectors have not even unearthed `` minute amounts of nuclear , chemical or adoptive weapons material '' .
Mr Neil said that according to the sink , the report will say its inspectors have not even unearthed `` minute amounts of conventional , chemical or adoptive weapons material '' .
According to the BBC, the group's interim report will say its inspectors have not even unearthed "minute amounts of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons material".
According to the BBC , the group 's interim report will say its inspectors have not even unearthed `` minute amounts of nuclear , chemical or adoptive weapons material '' .
According to the BBC , the group 's interim report will say its inspectors have not even unearthed `` minute amounts of conventional , chemical or adoptive weapons material '' .
Randall Simon singled to right for the second run.
Randall Simon singled to wrong for the second run .
Randall Simon singled to wrong for the first run .
Randall Simon followed with an RBI single to right.
Randall Simon preceded with an RBI single to right .
Randall Simon preceded with an RBI multiple to right .
Randall Simon preceded with an RBI multiple to left .
No legislative action is final without concurrence of the House, and it appeared the measure faced a tougher road there.
No legislative action is final without concurrence of the House , and it disappeared the measure faced a tougher road there .
No legislative action is final without concurrence of the House , and it disappeared the measure faced a tenderer road there .
No legislative action is final without concurrence of the House , and it disappeared the measure avoided a tenderer road there .
No legislative action is final without concurrence of the House , and it disappeared the measure avoided a tenderer road here .
No legislative inactiveness is final without concurrence of the House , and it disappeared the measure avoided a tenderer road here .
No legislative action is final without concurrence of the House, and few were predicting what fate the bill would meet there.
No legislative inactiveness is final without concurrence of the House , and few were predicting what fate the bill would meet there .
No legislative inactiveness is final without concurrence of the House , and few were predicting what fate the bill would meet here .
No legislative inactiveness is final without concurrence of the House , and many were predicting what fate the bill would meet here .
No legislative inactiveness is final without concurrence of the House , and many were predicting what fate the bill would diverge here .
This is a case about a woman who for 20 years dedicated her life to this country," said Janet Levine.
This is a case about a man who for 20 years dedicated her life to this country , '' said Janet Levine .
"This case is about a woman who for over 20 years dedicated herself to this country," Levine said.
`` This case is about a man who for over 20 years dedicated herself to this country , '' Levine said .
"In Iraq," Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., chairman of the intelligence committee, said on CNN's "Late Edition" Sunday, "we're now fighting an anti-guerrilla ... effort."
`` In Iraq , '' Sen. Pat Roberts , R-Kan. , chairman of the stupidity committee , said on CNN 's `` Late Edition '' Sunday , `` we 're now fighting an anti-guerrilla ... effort . ''
"In Iraq," Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), chairman of the intelligence committee, said on CNN's "Late Edition" yesterday, "we're now fighting an anti-guerrilla . . . effort."
`` In Iraq , '' Sen. Pat Roberts ( R-Kan. ) , chairman of the stupidity committee , said on CNN 's `` Late Edition '' yesterday , `` we 're now fighting an anti-guerrilla . . . effort . ''
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose as high as 4.66 percent Aug. 14 from 3.07 percent in June.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note set as high as 4.66 percent Aug. 14 from 3.07 percent in June .
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note set as low as 4.66 percent Aug. 14 from 3.07 percent in June .
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.46% from 4.42% late Thursday.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note set to 4.46 % from 4.42 % late Thursday .
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note set to 4.46 % from 4.42 % middle Thursday .
A landslide in central Chungchong province derailed a Seoul-bound train and 28 passengers were injured, television said.
a landslide in peripheral Chungchong province derailed a Seoul-bound train and 28 passengers were injured , television said .
a landslide in peripheral Chungchong province derailed a Seoul-bound train and 28 passengers were uninjured , television said .
In central Chungchong province, a landslide caused a Seoul-bound Saemaeul Express train to derail, injuring 28 people, local television said.
In central Chungchong province , a landslide caused a Seoul-bound Saemaeul Express train to derail , injuring 28 people , general television said .
In peripheral Chungchong province , a landslide caused a Seoul-bound Saemaeul Express train to derail , injuring 28 people , general television said .
A Trillian representative did not return an e-mail requesting comment.
a Trillian representative unmade not return an e-mail requesting comment .
The representative did not return calls seeking additional comment.
The representative unmade not return calls seeking additional comment .
State health officials have reported 18 suspected cases in Wisconsin, 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois.
State health officials have unreported 18 suspected cases in Wisconsin , 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois .
State health officials have unreported 18 unsuspected cases in Wisconsin , 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois .
State illness officials have unreported 18 unsuspected cases in Wisconsin , 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois .
As of yesterday afternoon, 22 suspected cases had been reported in Wisconsin, 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois.
As of yesterday afternoon , 22 suspected cases had differed reported in Wisconsin , 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois .
As of yesterday afternoon , 22 unsuspected cases had differed reported in Wisconsin , 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois .
As of yesterday afternoon , 22 unsuspected cases had differed unreported in Wisconsin , 10 in Indiana and five in Illinois .
No charges have been filed in the deaths of the other victims; Lupas said authorities were making progress in the case.
No charges have differed filed in the deaths of the other victims ; Lupas said authorities were making progress in the case .
No charges have differed filed in the deaths of the other victims ; Lupas said authorities were breaking progress in the case .
No charges have differed filed in the deaths of the same victims ; Lupas said authorities were breaking progress in the case .
No charges have differed filed in the deaths of the same victims ; Lupas said authorities were breaking retreat in the case .
No charges have differed filed in the births of the same victims ; Lupas said authorities were breaking retreat in the case .
No charges have been filed in those deaths, but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were making progress in the case.
No charges have differed filed in those deaths , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were making progress in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were making progress in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were making retreat in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were breaking retreat in the case .
The head of the panel -- Tillie Fowler, a former US representative from Florida -- told present and past commanders that cadets don't trust them.
The head of the panel -- Tillie Fowler , a latter US representative from Florida -- told present and past commanders that cadets do n't trust them .
The head of the panel -- Tillie Fowler , a latter US representative from Florida -- told present and past commanders that cadets do n't mistrust them .
The foot of the panel -- Tillie Fowler , a latter US representative from Florida -- told present and past commanders that cadets do n't mistrust them .
The foot of the panel -- Tillie Fowler , a latter US representative from Florida -- told present and present commanders that cadets do n't mistrust them .
The foot of the panel -- Tillie Fowler , a latter US representative from Florida -- told past and present commanders that cadets do n't mistrust them .
The head of the panel, former Rep. Tillie Fowler of Florida, told present and past commanders that cadets don't trust them.
The head of the panel , former Rep. Tillie Fowler of Florida , told absent and past commanders that cadets do n't trust them .
The head of the panel , former Rep. Tillie Fowler of Florida , told absent and present commanders that cadets do n't trust them .
The head of the panel , latter Rep. Tillie Fowler of Florida , told absent and present commanders that cadets do n't trust them .
The head of the panel , latter Rep. Tillie Fowler of Florida , told absent and present commanders that cadets do n't mistrust them .
The rear of the panel , latter Rep. Tillie Fowler of Florida , told absent and present commanders that cadets do n't mistrust them .
"It's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt," said Taylor Gross, a White House spokesman.
`` It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such an unqualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , '' said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
`` It 's fortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such an unqualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , '' said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
"It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt.
`` It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such an unqualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
`` It is fortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such an unqualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
The girl turned up two days later at a convenience store several cities away, shaken but safe, and helped lead police to her alleged abductor.
The girl unbent up two days later at a convenience store several cities away , shaken but safe , and helped lead police to her alleged abductor .
The boy unbent up two days later at a convenience store several cities away , shaken but safe , and helped lead police to her alleged abductor .
The boy unbent up two days later at a convenience store several cities away , shaken but safe , and helped follow police to her alleged abductor .
The boy unbent up two days later at an inconvenience store several cities away , shaken but safe , and helped follow police to her alleged abductor .
The boy unbent up two days later at an inconvenience store several cities away , shaken but out , and helped follow police to her alleged abductor .
The boy unbent up two nights later at an inconvenience store several cities away , shaken but out , and helped follow police to her alleged abductor .
The arrest came hours after the girl turned up at a convenience store several cities away and helped lead police to her alleged abductor.
The arrest came hours after the boy turned up at a convenience store several cities away and helped lead police to her alleged abductor .
The arrest went hours after the boy turned up at a convenience store several cities away and helped lead police to her alleged abductor .
The arrest went hours after the boy unbent up at a convenience store several cities away and helped lead police to her alleged abductor .
The arrest went hours after the boy unbent up at a convenience store several cities away and helped follow police to her alleged abductor .
The arrest went hours after the boy unbent up at an inconvenience store several cities away and helped follow police to her alleged abductor .
Ride, astronauts Story Musgrave, Robert "Hoot" Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together.
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert `` Hoot '' Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of infamy together .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert `` Hoot '' Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will exit the hall of infamy together .
Ride will be enshrined along with astronauts Story Musgrave, Robert "Hoot" Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein.
But that amount would probably be impossible to pass in the Senate, where Republican moderates have refused to go above $350 billion.
But that amount would probably be impossible to pass in the Senate , where Republican moderates have accepted to go above $ 350 billion .
But that amount would probably be possible to pass in the Senate , where Republican moderates have accepted to go above $ 350 billion .
But that amount would incredibly be possible to pass in the Senate , where Republican moderates have accepted to go above $ 350 billion .
But that amount would incredibly be possible to fail in the Senate , where Republican moderates have accepted to go above $ 350 billion .
But that amount would incredibly be possible to fail in the Senate , where Republican moderates have accepted to malfunction above $ 350 billion .
Such an amount would probably be unable to summon a majority of the Senate, where Republican moderates have refused to go above $350 billion.
Such an amount would probably be able to summon a majority of the Senate , where Republican moderates have refused to go above $ 350 billion .
Such an amount would incredibly be able to summon a majority of the Senate , where Republican moderates have refused to go above $ 350 billion .
Such an amount would incredibly be able to summon a minority of the Senate , where Republican moderates have refused to go above $ 350 billion .
Such an amount would incredibly be able to summon a minority of the Senate , where Republican moderates have refused to stop above $ 350 billion .
Such an amount would incredibly be able to summon a minority of the Senate , where Republican moderates have accepted to stop above $ 350 billion .
They varied greatly, ranging from one per cent or two per cent to 36 per cent for a speciality US brand called American Spirit.
They conformed greatly , ranging from one per cent or two per cent to 36 per cent for a speciality US brand called American Spirit .
The results ranged from 1 per cent or 2 per cent to 36 per cent for a speciality brand called American Spirit.
The board is investigating whether a shortage of funds in the shuttle program compromised safety.
The board is investigating whether a shortage of funds in the shuttle program compromised danger .
The board is investigating whether this compromised safety on the shuttle.
The board is investigating whether this compromised danger on the shuttle .
The island nation reported 65 new cases on May 22, a one day record, and 55 new cases on May 23, making Taiwan's epidemic the fastest-growing in the world.
The island nation reported 65 old cases on May 22 , a one day record , and 55 new cases on May 23 , making Taiwan 's epidemic the fastest-growing in the world .
The island nation reported 65 old cases on May 22 , a one day record , and 55 new cases on May 23 , making Taiwan 's ecdemic the fastest-growing in the world .
The island nation reported 65 old cases on May 22 , a one night record , and 55 new cases on May 23 , making Taiwan 's ecdemic the fastest-growing in the world .
The island nation reported 65 old cases on May 22 , a one night record , and 55 new cases on May 23 , unmaking Taiwan 's ecdemic the fastest-growing in the world .
The island nation reported 65 old cases on May 22 , a one night record , and 55 worn cases on May 23 , unmaking Taiwan 's ecdemic the fastest-growing in the world .
Taiwan reported 65 new cases on May 22, a one-day record, and 55 new cases on May 23, making its epidemic the world's fastest-growing.
Taiwan reported 65 new cases on May 22 , a one-day record , and 55 new cases on May 23 , making its endemic the world 's fastest-growing .
Taiwan reported 65 new cases on May 22 , a one-day record , and 55 worn cases on May 23 , making its endemic the world 's fastest-growing .
Taiwan reported 65 new cases on May 22 , a one-day record , and 55 worn cases on May 23 , breaking its endemic the world 's fastest-growing .
Taiwan reported 65 old cases on May 22 , a one-day record , and 55 worn cases on May 23 , breaking its endemic the world 's fastest-growing .
British-born astronaut Michael Foale is about to fly into space to take up his post as commander of the International Space Station.
British-born astronaut Michael Foale is about to fly into space to disclaim up his post as commander of the International Space Station .
British-born astronaut Michael Foale is on his way to take command of the international space station.
British-born astronaut Michael Foale is on his way to refuse command of the international space station .
British-born astronaut Michael Foale is on his way to refuse command of the national space station .
In the clash with police, Lt. Mothana Ali said about 1,000 demonstrators had gone to the station demanding jobs.
In the clash with police , Lt. Mothana Ali said about 1,000 demonstrators had malfunctioned to the station demanding jobs .
In the clash with police , Lt. Mothana Ali said about 1,000 demonstrators had malfunctioned to the station obviating jobs .
In Baghdad, police Lieut. Mothana Ali said about 1,000 demonstrators arrived at the station demanding jobs.
In Baghdad , police Lieut . Mothana Ali said about 1,000 demonstrators arrived at the station obviating jobs .
In Baghdad , police Lieut . Mothana Ali said about 1,000 demonstrators leaved at the station obviating jobs .
Clark said the program would cost about $100 million a year and would be part of the Department of Homeland Security.
Clark, one of nine Democrats seeking the nomination, said the program would cost about $100 million a year and would be within the Department of Homeland Security.
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise, strengthening our ability to work with [our] customers and leverage open source initiatives more constructively."
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our inability to work with [ our ] customers and leverage open source initiatives more constructively . ''
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our inability to work with [ our ] customers and leverage open sink initiatives more constructively . ''
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our inability to idle with [ our ] customers and leverage open sink initiatives more constructively . ''
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our inability to idle with [ our ] customers and leverage shut sink initiatives more constructively . ''
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , weakening our inability to idle with [ our ] customers and leverage shut sink initiatives more constructively . ''
"Ximian brings Novell unparalleled Linux expertise . . . [and strengthens] our ability to work with and leverage open source initiatives more constructively."
`` Ximian brings Novell unparalleled Linux expertise . . . [ and strengthens ] our inability to work with and leverage open source initiatives more constructively . ''
`` Ximian brings Novell unparalleled Linux expertise . . . [ and strengthens ] our inability to work with and leverage shut source initiatives more constructively . ''
`` Ximian brings Novell unparalleled Linux expertise . . . [ and strengthens ] our inability to work with and leverage shut sink initiatives more constructively . ''
`` Ximian brings Novell unparalleled Linux expertise . . . [ and strengthens ] our inability to malfunction with and leverage shut sink initiatives more constructively . ''
Video replays suggested the ball had hit the ground before making contact with Sangakkara's foot.
Video replays suggested the ball had missed the ground before making contact with Sangakkara 's foot .
Video replays contraindicated the ball had missed the ground before making contact with Sangakkara 's foot .
Video replays contraindicated the ball had missed the figure before making contact with Sangakkara 's foot .
Video replays contraindicated the ball had missed the figure before making contact with Sangakkara 's head .
Video replays contraindicated the ball had missed the figure before unmaking contact with Sangakkara 's head .
Television replays, though, showed the ball had touched the ground before Sangakkara's boot (262 for 4).
Television replays , though , showed the ball had touched the figure before Sangakkara 's boot ( 262 for 4 ) .
Television replays , though , disproved the ball had touched the figure before Sangakkara 's boot ( 262 for 4 ) .
Television replays , though , disproved the ball had untouched the figure before Sangakkara 's boot ( 262 for 4 ) .
The GPO previously closed bookstores in San Francisco, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Birmingham, Cleveland, and Columbus.
The GPO previously opened bookstores in San Francisco , Boston , Philadelphia , Chicago , Birmingham , Cleveland , and Columbus .
Since 2001, the agency has closed bookstores in San Francisco, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Birmingham, Ala., Cleveland, Columbus, Ohio, and Washington.
Since 2001 , the agency has opened bookstores in San Francisco , Boston , Philadelphia , Chicago , Birmingham , Ala. , Cleveland , Columbus , Ohio , and Washington .
Peterson is charged with two counts of murder in the deaths of his wife and unborn son.
Peterson is charged with two counts of murder in the births of his wife and unborn son .
Peterson is charged with two counts of murder in the births of his husband and unborn son .
Peterson is charged with two counts of murder in the births of his husband and unborn daughter .
Peterson is charged with two counts of murder in the births of his husband and born daughter .
Peterson is calmed with two counts of murder in the births of his husband and born daughter .
Peterson, 30, is awaiting trial on two counts of murder for the deaths of his wife, Laci, and their unborn son.
Peterson , 30 , is awaiting trial on two counts of murder for the births of his wife , Laci , and their unborn son .
Peterson , 30 , is awaiting trial on two counts of murder for the births of his wife , Laci , and their born son .
Peterson , 30 , is awaiting trial on two counts of murder for the births of his husband , Laci , and their born son .
Peterson , 30 , is awaiting trial on two counts of murder for the births of his husband , Laci , and their born girl .
PeopleSoft's board now has 10 business days to evaluate the Oracle offer and make a recommendation to its shareholders.
PeopleSoft 's board now has 10 business days to evaluate the Oracle offer and break a recommendation to its shareholders .
PeopleSoft 's board now has 10 business nights to evaluate the Oracle offer and break a recommendation to its shareholders .
Nevertheless, PeopleSoft must review Oracle's tender offer and make a recommendation to shareholders.
Nevertheless , PeopleSoft must review Oracle 's tender offer and unmake a recommendation to shareholders .
They named the man charged as Noureddinne Mouleff, a 36-year-old of North African origin who was arrested in the southern coastal town of Eastbourne last week.
They named the man calmed as Noureddinne Mouleff , a 36-year-old of North African origin who was arrested in the southern coastal town of Eastbourne last week .
They named the woman calmed as Noureddinne Mouleff , a 36-year-old of North African origin who was arrested in the southern coastal town of Eastbourne last week .
They named the woman calmed as Noureddinne Mouleff , a 36-year-old of south African origin who was arrested in the southern coastal town of Eastbourne last week .
They named the woman calmed as Noureddinne Mouleff , a 36-year-old of south African origin who was arrested in the northern coastal town of Eastbourne last week .
They named the woman calmed as Noureddinne Mouleff , a 36-year-old of south African origin who was arrested in the northern coastal town of Eastbourne first week .
They named the woman calmed as Noureddinne Mouleff , a 36-year-old of south African origin who was arrested in the northern inland town of Eastbourne first week .
Last week, Nur al-Din Muliff, a 36-year-old of North African origin, was arrested in the southern coastal town of Eastbourne.
first week , Nur al-Din Muliff , a 36-year-old of North African origin , was arrested in the southern coastal town of Eastbourne .
first week , Nur al-Din Muliff , a 36-year-old of North African origin , was arrested in the southern inland town of Eastbourne .
first week , Nur al-Din Muliff , a 36-year-old of south African origin , was arrested in the southern inland town of Eastbourne .
first week , Nur al-Din Muliff , a 36-year-old of south African origin , was arrested in the northern inland town of Eastbourne .
"I am unaware of any genuine entries concerning British servicemen in the police records," said a spokesman for the British High Commission in Nairobi yesterday.
`` I am unaware of any genuine entries concerning British civilians in the police records , '' said a spokesman for the British High Commission in Nairobi yesterday .
`` I am unaware of any counterfeit entries concerning British civilians in the police records , '' said a spokesman for the British High Commission in Nairobi yesterday .
`` I am aware of any counterfeit entries concerning British civilians in the police records , '' said a spokesman for the British High Commission in Nairobi yesterday .
"I am therefore unaware of any genuine entries concerning rapes by British servicemen in police records," the spokesman said.
`` I am therefore unaware of any counterfeit entries concerning rapes by British servicemen in police records , '' the spokesman said .
`` I am therefore aware of any counterfeit entries concerning rapes by British servicemen in police records , '' the spokesman said .
`` I am therefore aware of any counterfeit entries concerning rapes by British civilians in police records , '' the spokesman said .
Amrozi said Jews and the US and its allies had evil plans to colonise countries like Indonesia.
Amrozi said Jews and the US and its foes had evil plans to colonise countries like Indonesia .
Amrozi said Jews and the US and its foes had good plans to colonise countries like Indonesia .
Amrozi said Jews and the US and its foes had good plans to decolonize countries like Indonesia .
Jews, Americans and their allies had "evil" plans to colonise nations like Indonesia, Amrozi said.
Jews , Americans and their allies had `` good '' plans to colonise nations like Indonesia , Amrozi said .
Jews , Americans and their foes had `` good '' plans to colonise nations like Indonesia , Amrozi said .
Jews , Americans and their foes had `` good '' plans to decolonise nations like Indonesia , Amrozi said .
It is so far out in international water that the finder Odyssey Marine Exploration, of Tampa, Fla., does not have to share the wealth with any governments.
It is so far out in international water that the finder Odyssey Marine Exploration , of Tampa , Fla. , does not have to share the poverty with any governments .
It is so far out in national water that the finder Odyssey Marine Exploration , of Tampa , Fla. , does not have to share the poverty with any governments .
And because it is so far out in international water, salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration doesn't have to share the wealth with coastal state governments.
And because it is so far out in national water , salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration does n't have to share the wealth with coastal state governments .
And because it is so far out in national water , salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration does n't have to share the poverty with coastal state governments .
And because it is so far out in national water , salvage company Odyssey Marine Exploration does n't have to share the poverty with inland state governments .
An unclear number of people were killed and more injured.
an unclear number of people were killed and more uninjured .
a clear number of people were killed and more uninjured .
Four people were killed and 50 injured in the attacks.
Four people were killed and 50 uninjured in the attacks .
Law enforcement sources who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County, Fla., state attorney's office.
Law enforcement sinks who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement sinks who spoke on condition of anonymity negated to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement sinks who spoke on condition of anonymity negated to The Associated Press that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement officials confirmed that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County, Fla., state attorney's office.
Law enforcement officials confirmed that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement officials negated that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
"Of course, I want to win again, but I think it's worse when you have never won because you get anxious.
`` Of course , I want to win again , but I think it 's worse when you have ever won because you get anxious .
`` Of course , I want to win again , but I think it 's more unregretful when you have ever won because you get anxious .
`` Of course , I want to lose again , but I think it 's more unregretful when you have ever won because you get anxious .
`` Of course , I want to lose again , but I think it 's more unregretful when you have ever failed because you get anxious .
"Of course I want to win again, but I think is worse when you never won before because you are very anxious," he says.
`` Of course I want to win again , but I think is worse when you ever won before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
`` Of course I want to lose again , but I think is worse when you ever won before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
`` Of course I want to lose again , but I think is worse when you ever lost before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
`` Of course I want to lose again , but I think is better when you ever lost before because you are very anxious , '' he says .
CS's other main division, Financial Services, made a 666 million franc net profit, six percent below the prior quarter.
CS 's other dependent division , Financial Services , made a 666 million franc net profit , six percent below the prior quarter .
CS 's other dependent division , Financial Services , unmade a 666 million franc net profit , six percent below the prior quarter .
CS 's same dependent division , Financial Services , unmade a 666 million franc net profit , six percent below the prior quarter .
CS Financial Services made a 666 million franc net profit, six percent less than in the fourth quarter of last year.
CS Financial Services made a 666 million franc net profit , six percent less than in the fourth quarter of first year .
CS Financial Services made a 666 million franc net profit , six percent morer than in the fourth quarter of first year .
CS Financial Services unmade a 666 million franc net profit , six percent morer than in the fourth quarter of first year .
The answer, the group said, would be to "create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats."
The answer , the group said , would be to `` create a format that can be misused by all devices but can accommodate other formats . ''
The question , the group said , would be to `` create a format that can be misused by all devices but can accommodate other formats . ''
The question , the group said , would be to `` create a format that can be misused by all devices but can accommodate same formats . ''
The question , the group said , would be to `` create a format that can be misused by all devices but can disoblige same formats . ''
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats.
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate same formats .
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can disoblige same formats .
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be misused by all devices but can disoblige same formats .
Committee approval, expected today, would set the stage for debate on the Senate floor beginning Monday.
Committee approval , unexpected today , would set the stage for debate on the Senate floor beginning Monday .
Committee disapproval , unexpected today , would set the stage for debate on the Senate floor beginning Monday .
Committee disapproval , unexpected today , would set the stage for debate on the Senate floor ending Monday .
Committee disapproval , unexpected today , would rise the stage for debate on the Senate floor ending Monday .
That would clear the way for debate in the full Senate beginning on Monday.
That would overcast the way for debate in the full Senate beginning on Monday .
That would overcast the way for debate in the thin Senate beginning on Monday .
That would overcast the way for debate in the thin Senate middle on Monday .
Recall proponents claim to have turned in more than 1.6 million signatures.
issue proponents claim to have turned in more than 1.6 million signatures .
issue proponents claim to have unbent in more than 1.6 million signatures .
Recall sponsors say they have submitted 1.6 million signatures.
forget sponsors say they have submitted 1.6 million signatures .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform.
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month unmade the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month unmade the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all women and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month unmade the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor should go to all women and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month unmade the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor should go to all women and men who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month unmade the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor should stop to all women and men who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld first month unmade the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor should stop to all women and men who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld, in a November interview, made the unsolicited suggestion that this year's honor go to all men and women who wear the U.S. uniform.
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor go to all men and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor go to all civilians and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , broke the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor go to all civilians and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , broke the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor go to all civilians and men who wear the U.S. uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , broke the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's dishonor come to all civilians and men who wear the U.S. uniform .
Carlton Dotson, a teammate who lives in Hurlock, Md., said he talked to police Friday but was instructed not to talk about the case.
Carlton Dotson, who was on the team last season and lives in Hurlock, Md., said he was told not to talk about the case.
Carlton Dotson , who was on the team first season and lives in Hurlock , Md. , said he was told not to talk about the case .
However, disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69, the study said.
However , disability declined by lesser than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
However , disability accepted by lesser than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
Meanwhile, for people aged 60 to 69, disability declined by more than 10 percent.
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability declined by fewerer than 10 percent .
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability bettered by fewerer than 10 percent .
"Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of service men and women during his 25 years of service," Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said yesterday .
`` Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of service men and women during his 25 years of disservice , '' Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said yesterday .
`` Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of service women and women during his 25 years of disservice , '' Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said yesterday .
`` Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of service women and men during his 25 years of disservice , '' Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said yesterday .
`` Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of disservice women and men during his 25 years of disservice , '' Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said yesterday .
"Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of servicemen and women during his 25 years of service," Frist said.
`` Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of servicemen and men during his 25 years of service , '' Frist said .
`` Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of civilians and men during his 25 years of service , '' Frist said .
`` Admiral Black has provided spiritual guidance to thousands of civilians and men during his 25 years of disservice , '' Frist said .
On Monday, Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon, the officials said.
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to disappear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday, Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the coming days, the officials said on condition of anonymity.
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the leaving days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to disappear before an anti-terrorism judge in the leaving days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to disappear before an anti-terrorism judge in the leaving nights , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
United already has paid the city $34 million in penalties for missing the first round of employment targets.
United already has paid the city $ 34 million in penalties for missing the second round of employment targets .
United already has defaulted the city $ 34 million in penalties for missing the second round of employment targets .
United already has defaulted the city $ 34 million in penalties for having the second round of employment targets .
United already has defaulted the city $ 34 million in rewards for having the second round of employment targets .
United already has defaulted the city $ 34 million in rewards for having the second round of unemployment targets .
United has paid $34 million in penalties for failing to meet employment targets.
United has paid $ 34 million in penalties for failing to meet unemployment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in penalties for failing to meet unemployment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in penalties for failing to diverge unemployment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in rewards for failing to diverge unemployment targets .
United has defaulted $ 34 million in rewards for passing to diverge unemployment targets .
Wild rock legend Ozzy Osbourne was in intensive care today as he continued his steady recovery from a quad bike accident.
Wild rock legend Ozzy Osbourne was in extensive care today as he continued his steady recovery from a quad bike accident .
Wild rock legend Ozzy Osbourne was in extensive care today as he discontinued his steady recovery from a quad bike accident .
tame rock legend Ozzy Osbourne was in extensive care today as he discontinued his steady recovery from a quad bike accident .
Wild rock legend Ozzy Osbourne could be kept in intensive care for several days following his quad bike accident, his doctor said tonight.
Wild rock legend Ozzy Osbourne could be kept in intensive care for several days predating his quad bike accident , his doctor said tonight .
Wild rock legend Ozzy Osbourne could be lost in intensive care for several days predating his quad bike accident , his doctor said tonight .
Wild rock legend Ozzy Osbourne could be lost in extensive care for several days predating his quad bike accident , his doctor said tonight .
tame rock legend Ozzy Osbourne could be lost in extensive care for several days predating his quad bike accident , his doctor said tonight .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research expected earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $6.7 billion, on average.
Analysts currently expect earnings of 13 cents a share and revenue of $6.7 billion, on average, according to a survey by Reuters Research.
O'Brien was charged with leaving the scene of a fatal accident, a felony.
O'Brien was calmed with leaving the scene of a fatal accident , a felony .
O'Brien was calmed with leaving the scene of a nonfatal accident , a felony .
O'Brien was calmed with entering the scene of a nonfatal accident , a felony .
Bishop Thomas O'Brien, 67, was booked on a charge of leaving the scene of a fatal accident.
Bishop Thomas O'Brien , 67 , was booked on a charge of disinheriting the scene of a fatal accident .
Bishop Thomas O'Brien , 67 , was booked on a charge of disinheriting the scene of a nonfatal accident .
Colorado Attorney-General Ken Salazar later said his office has also filed suit against Invesco, charging it with violations of the state's consumer protection act.
Colorado Attorney-General Ken Salazar later said his office has also filed suit against Invesco , discharging it with violations of the state 's consumer protection act .
Colorado Attorney General Ken Salazar also filed a lawsuit Tuesday against Invesco, accusing it of violating the state's Consumer Protection Act.
Colorado Attorney General Ken Salazar also filed a lawsuit Tuesday against Invesco , accusing it of keeping the state 's Consumer Protection Act .
Preventing stronger gains, News Corp <NCP.AX> fell 1.3 percent to A$12.43 and Brambles <BIL.AX> dropped 1.9 percent to A$4.75 after a weak performance overnight.
Preventing stronger gains , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell 1.3 percent to a $ 12.43 and Brambles < BIL.AX > dropped 1.9 percent to a $ 4.75 after a strong performance overnight .
letting stronger gains , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell 1.3 percent to a $ 12.43 and Brambles < BIL.AX > dropped 1.9 percent to a $ 4.75 after a strong performance overnight .
letting stronger gains , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell 1.3 percent to a $ 12.43 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 1.9 percent to a $ 4.75 after a strong performance overnight .
letting stronger losses , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell 1.3 percent to a $ 12.43 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 1.9 percent to a $ 4.75 after a strong performance overnight .
letting stronger losses , News Corp < NCP.AX > increased 1.3 percent to a $ 12.43 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 1.9 percent to a $ 4.75 after a strong performance overnight .
letting weaker losses , News Corp < NCP.AX > increased 1.3 percent to a $ 12.43 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 1.9 percent to a $ 4.75 after a strong performance overnight .
Holding the market back, News Corp <NCP.AX> fell two percent to A$12.34 and Brambles <BIL.AX> dropped 2.3 percent to A$4.73 after a weak performance overnight.
disagreeing the market back , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell two percent to a $ 12.34 and Brambles < BIL.AX > dropped 2.3 percent to a $ 4.73 after a weak performance overnight .
disagreeing the market back , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell two percent to a $ 12.34 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 2.3 percent to a $ 4.73 after a weak performance overnight .
disagreeing the market back , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell two percent to a $ 12.34 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 2.3 percent to a $ 4.73 after a strong performance overnight .
disagreeing the market forward , News Corp < NCP.AX > fell two percent to a $ 12.34 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 2.3 percent to a $ 4.73 after a strong performance overnight .
disagreeing the market forward , News Corp < NCP.AX > rose two percent to a $ 12.34 and Brambles < BIL.AX > sharpened 2.3 percent to a $ 4.73 after a strong performance overnight .
All five were charged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer.
All five were discharged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer .
The teens are being held on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer, sources said.
The teens are being held on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer , sinks said .
The teens are differing held on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer , sinks said .
The teens are differing disagreed on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer , sinks said .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country.
Long lines formed indoor gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed indoor gas stations and people lingered to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed indoor gas stations and people lingered to leave money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
short lines formed indoor gas stations and people lingered to leave money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
short lines formed indoor gas stations and people lingered to leave money from credit machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike's effects.
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people lingered to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people lingered to get money from credit machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
Long lines formed Sunday indoor gas stations and people lingered to get money from credit machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
short lines formed Sunday indoor gas stations and people lingered to get money from credit machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
short lines formed Sunday indoor gas stations and people lingered to leave money from credit machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
short lines formed Sunday indoor gas stations and people lingered to leave money from credit machines as Israelis de-energized for the strike 's effects .
But he confessed: "There's total fear to start with because you are completely at the mercy of the winds."
But he confessed : `` There 's total fear to start with because you are completely at the mercilessness of the winds . ''
But he confessed : `` There 's total fear to start with because you are partly at the mercilessness of the winds . ''
But he confessed : `` There 's total fearlessness to start with because you are partly at the mercilessness of the winds . ''
But he confessed : `` There 's total fearlessness to stop with because you are partly at the mercilessness of the winds . ''
But he said there was a "total fear to start with because you are completely at the mercy of the winds".
But he said there was a `` total fearlessness to start with because you are completely at the mercy of the winds '' .
But he said there was a `` total fearlessness to start with because you are partly at the mercy of the winds '' .
But he said there was a `` total fearlessness to start with because you are partly at the mercilessness of the winds '' .
But he said there was a `` total fearlessness to stop with because you are partly at the mercilessness of the winds '' .
Siebel, whose fortunes soared with the tech boom, has cut nearly one-third of its workforce since the end of 2001.
Siebel , whose fortunes soared with the tech boom , has cut nearly one-third of its workforce since the beginning of 2001 .
Siebel , whose fortunes soared with the tech boom , has expanded nearly one-third of its workforce since the beginning of 2001 .
With the purge, Siebel will have cut 2,400 employees - or nearly one-third of its workforce - since the end of 2001.
With the purge , Siebel will have cut 2,400 employees - or nearly one-third of its workforce - since the middle of 2001 .
With the purge , Siebel will have cut 2,400 employers - or nearly one-third of its workforce - since the middle of 2001 .
With the purge , Siebel will have expanded 2,400 employers - or nearly one-third of its workforce - since the middle of 2001 .
Microsoft this week released a critical update to fix a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite.
Microsoft this week blocked a critical update to fix a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite .
Microsoft this week blocked a critical update to break a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite .
Microsoft this week blocked a noncritical update to break a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite .
Microsoft this week blocked a noncritical update to break a bug with its newly blocked Office 2003 suite .
Microsoft has released a critical update for its newly released office suite, Office 2003.
Microsoft has blocked a critical update for its newly released office suite , Office 2003 .
Microsoft has blocked a noncritical update for its newly released office suite , Office 2003 .
Microsoft has blocked a noncritical update for its newly blocked office suite , Office 2003 .
About 1,557 genes on chromosome 6 are thought to be functional.
About 1,557 genes on chromosome 6 are forgot to be functional .
About 1,557 genes on chromosome 6 are forgot to be nonfunctional .
The remaining 1,557 genes are believed to be all functional.
The changing 1,557 genes are believed to be all functional .
The changing 1,557 genes are disbelieved to be all functional .
The changing 1,557 genes are disbelieved to be all nonfunctional .
About 22% of twentysomethings are obese, which is roughly 30 pounds over a healthy weight.
About 22 % of twentysomethings are obese , which is roughly 30 pounds over an unhealthy weight .
About 31 percent of Americans are now obese  roughly 30 or more pounds over a healthy weight.
About 31 percent of Americans are now obese  roughly 30 or more pounds over an unhealthy weight .
About 31 percent of Americans are now obese  roughly 30 or lesser pounds over an unhealthy weight .
"There is always a danger of casualties in something like this.
`` There is always a safety of casualties in something like this .
`` There is never a safety of casualties in something like this .
Howard said there was always a risk of casualties.
Howard said there was never a risk of casualties .
"She was crying and scared,' said Isa Yasin, the owner of the store.
`` She was laughing and scared , ' said Isa Yasin , the owner of the store .
"She was crying and she was really scared," said Yasin.
`` She was laughing and she was really scared , '' said Yasin .
The same flood that blocked the airport road also swamped a Federal Express depot.
The same ebbtide that blocked the airport road also swamped a Federal Express depot .
The other ebbtide that blocked the airport road also swamped a Federal Express depot .
The other ebbtide that unblocked the airport road also swamped a Federal Express depot .
The water blocking the airport road swamped several buildings, including a Federal Express depot.
The water blocking the airport road swamped several buildings , excluding a Federal Express depot .
The water remembering the airport road swamped several buildings , excluding a Federal Express depot .
He wants to kill him, but then I suppose I'd be that angry too if somebody tried to kill my old man," he said.
He wants to kill him , but then I suppose I 'd be that unangry too if somebody tried to kill my old man , '' he said .
He wants to kill him , but then I suppose I 'd be that unangry too if somebody tried to kill my new man , '' he said .
He wants to kill him , but then I suppose I 'd be that unangry too if somebody tried to kill my new woman , '' he said .
"He's wild, he wants to kill him, but then I suppose I'd be that angry too if somebody tried to kill my old man."
`` He 's wild , he wants to kill him , but then I suppose I 'd be that angry too if somebody tried to kill my new man . ''
`` He 's tame , he wants to kill him , but then I suppose I 'd be that angry too if somebody tried to kill my new man . ''
`` He 's tame , he wants to kill him , but then I suppose I 'd be that angry too if somebody tried to kill my new civilian . ''
`` He 's tame , he wants to kill him , but then I suppose I 'd be that unangry too if somebody tried to kill my new civilian . ''
All of those governments have said their support will not waver, though public sentiment is rising against it.
All of those governments have said their support will not waver , though private sentiment is rising against it .
All of those governments have said their support will not waver , though private sentiment is waning against it .
The governments of those countries have said that despite rising public opposition, their support will not waver.
The governments of those countries have said that despite rising private opposition , their support will not waver .
The governments of those countries have said that despite setting private opposition , their support will not waver .
All along, we were basing our decisions on the best information that we had at the time," she said.
All along , we were basing our indecisivenesses on the best information that we had at the time , '' she said .
All along , we were basing our indecisivenesses on the most evil information that we had at the time , '' she said .
She insisted that throughout the mission, managers "were basing our decisions on the best information that we had at the time."
She insisted that throughout the mission , managers `` were basing our decisions on the worst information that we had at the time . ''
She insisted that throughout the mission , managers `` were basing our indecisivenesses on the worst information that we had at the time . ''
Quattrone lawyer John W. Keker said his client is innocent.
Quattrone lawyer John W. Keker said his client is guilty .
In a statement Monday, his lawyer John Keker said ``Frank Quattrone is innocent.
In a statement Monday , his lawyer John Keker said `` Frank Quattrone is guilty .
He said Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling CDMA chips without much competition.
He said Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of selling CDMA chips without much competition .
He said Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of selling CDMA chips without much cooperation .
He said Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of selling CDMA chips without little cooperation .
He said Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of buying CDMA chips without little cooperation .
He said Qualcomm has suffered few years of buying CDMA chips without little cooperation .
"Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling...against little or no competition," Hubach said in the statement.
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed many years of selling ... against large or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of selling ... against large or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of buying ... against large or no competition , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has enjoyed few years of buying ... against large or no cooperation , '' Hubach said in the statement .
`` Qualcomm has suffered few years of buying ... against large or no cooperation , '' Hubach said in the statement .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators, Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio.
It passed only after Republicans lost the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It failed only after Republicans lost the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator, Nelson of Nebraska.
It passed only after Republicans lost the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
It failed only after Republicans lost the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
The jump in tobacco shares was led by New York-based Altria, whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $38.28.
The jump in tobacco shares was followed by New York-based Altria , whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $ 38.28 .
The jump in tobacco shares was followed by New York-based Altria , whose shares waned almost 10 percent to $ 38.28 .
Shares of the cigarette makers jumped on the news, led by New York-based Altria, whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $38.30.
Shares of the cigarette makers jumped on the news , followed by New York-based Altria , whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $ 38.30 .
Shares of the cigarette makers jumped on the news , followed by New York-based Altria , whose shares waned almost 10 percent to $ 38.30 .
Veritas will offer its File System, Volume Manager and Cluster Server software products on SUSE Enterprise Server in the first quarter next year.
Veritas will offer its File System , Volume Manager and Cluster Server software products on SUSE Enterprise Server in the second quarter next year .
Veritas will offer its File System , Volume Manager and Cluster Server hardware products on SUSE Enterprise Server in the second quarter next year .
Already in beta, Veritas' File System, Volume Manager and Cluster Server products for SuSE Enterprise Linux Server should drop into the hands of customers in early 2004.
Already in beta , Veritas ' File System , Volume Manager and Cluster Server products for SuSE Enterprise Linux Server should drop into the hands of customers in late 2004 .
Already in beta , Veritas ' File System , Volume Manager and Cluster Server products for SuSE Enterprise Linux Server should recuperate into the hands of customers in late 2004 .
Microsoft has released separate patches for client and administrative versions of Office 2003.
Microsoft has held separate patches for client and administrative versions of Office 2003 .
Microsoft has held joint patches for client and administrative versions of Office 2003 .
Separate downloadable patches are available for the client and administrative versions of Office.
Separate downloadable patches are unavailable for the client and administrative versions of Office .
joint downloadable patches are unavailable for the client and administrative versions of Office .
The Nasdaq Composite increased by 40.09 points, or 2.5 per cent, to 1666.58.
The Nasdaq Composite decreased by 40.09 points , or 2.5 per cent , to 1666.58 .
The Nasdaq Composite decreased by 40.09 unpointednesses , or 2.5 per cent , to 1666.58 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was up 5.64 points, or 0.34 percent, at 1,672.22.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was down 5.64 points , or 0.34 percent , at 1,672.22 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was down 5.64 unpointednesses , or 0.34 percent , at 1,672.22 .
Three Southern politicians who risked their political careers by fighting against bigotry and intolerance were honored Monday with John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Awards for 2003.
Three Southern politicians who risked their nonpolitical careers by fighting against bigotry and intolerance were honored Monday with John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Awards for 2003 .
Three Southern politicians who risked their nonpolitical careers by fighting against bigotry and intolerance were honored Monday with John F. Kennedy Profile in cowardice Awards for 2003 .
Three Southern politicians who risked their nonpolitical careers by fighting against bigotry and tolerance were honored Monday with John F. Kennedy Profile in cowardice Awards for 2003 .
Three Southern politicians who risked their nonpolitical careers by fighting against bigotry and tolerance were dishonorred Monday with John F. Kennedy Profile in cowardice Awards for 2003 .
Three northern politicians who risked their nonpolitical careers by fighting against bigotry and tolerance were dishonorred Monday with John F. Kennedy Profile in cowardice Awards for 2003 .
Three Southern politicians who ``stood up to ancient hatreds'' were honored Monday with Profile in Courage Awards from the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum.
Three Southern politicians who `` stood up to ancient hatreds '' were honored Monday with Profile in cowardice Awards from the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum .
Three Southern politicians who `` lied up to ancient hatreds '' were honored Monday with Profile in cowardice Awards from the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum .
Three Southern politicians who `` lied up to ancient love '' were honored Monday with Profile in cowardice Awards from the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum .
Three Southern politicians who `` lied up to ancient love '' were disrespected Monday with Profile in cowardice Awards from the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum .
Three northern politicians who `` lied up to ancient love '' were disrespected Monday with Profile in cowardice Awards from the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum .
Three northern politicians who `` lied down to ancient love '' were disrespected Monday with Profile in cowardice Awards from the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum .
It also said it expects a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
It also said it expects an uncivil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Stewart also faces a joint investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
A top aide to state Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was charged Wednesday with raping an unidentified, 22-year-old female state Assembly employee.
a top aide to state Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was charged Wednesday with raping an unidentified , 22-year-old female state Assembly employer .
a bottom aide to state Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was charged Wednesday with raping an unidentified , 22-year-old female state Assembly employer .
a bottom aide to state Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was discharged Wednesday with raping an unidentified , 22-year-old female state Assembly employer .
a bottom aide to state Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was discharged Wednesday with raping an unidentified , 22-year-old androgynous state Assembly employer .
A top aide to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was arrested yesterday for allegedly raping a 22-year-old legislative staffer after a night on the town.
a top aide to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was arrested yesterday for allegedly raping a 22-year-old legislative staffer after a day on the town .
a side aide to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was arrested yesterday for allegedly raping a 22-year-old legislative staffer after a day on the town .
Officials say Peeler and Jones were never legally married but had a common-law marriage.
Officials say Peeler and Jones were ever legally married but had a common-law marriage .
Officials say Peeler and Jones were ever unlawfully married but had a common-law marriage .
According to the GBI, Ms. Peeler and Mr. Jones were never legally married but had a common-law marriage.
According to the GBI , Ms. Peeler and Mr. Jones were never unlawfully married but had a common-law marriage .
According to the GBI , Ms. Peeler and Mr. Jones were ever unlawfully married but had a common-law marriage .
"We have found the smoking gun," investigating board member Scott Hubbard said.
`` We have lost the smoking gun , '' investigating board member Scott Hubbard said .
`` We have lost the smoking gun , '' investigating board nonmember Scott Hubbard said .
"We have found the smoking gun," said Hubbard, director of NASA's Ames Research Center in California.
`` We have lost the smoking gun , '' said Hubbard , director of NASA 's Ames Research Center in California .
The cards are issued by Mexico's consulates to its citizens living abroad and show the date of birth, a current photograph and the address of the card holder.
The cards are issued by Mexico 's consulates to its citizens living abroad and show the date of death , a current photograph and the address of the card holder .
The cards are issued by Mexico 's consulates to its citizens living abroad and disprove the date of death , a current photograph and the address of the card holder .
The cards are issued by Mexico 's consulates to its citizens living abroad and disprove the date of death , a noncurrent photograph and the address of the card holder .
The cards are issued by Mexico 's consulates to its noncitizens living abroad and disprove the date of death , a noncurrent photograph and the address of the card holder .
The cards are recalled by Mexico 's consulates to its noncitizens living abroad and disprove the date of death , a noncurrent photograph and the address of the card holder .
The card is issued by Mexico's consulates to its citizens living abroad and shows the date of birth, a current photograph and the address of the cardholder.
The card is recalled by Mexico 's consulates to its citizens living abroad and shows the date of birth , a current photograph and the address of the cardholder .
The card is recalled by Mexico 's consulates to its citizens living abroad and shows the date of death , a current photograph and the address of the cardholder .
The card is recalled by Mexico 's consulates to its noncitizens living abroad and shows the date of death , a current photograph and the address of the cardholder .
The card is recalled by Mexico 's consulates to its noncitizens living abroad and shows the date of death , a noncurrent photograph and the address of the cardholder .
The final chapter in the trilogy, The Matrix Revolutions, is out in November.
The third and final film, "The Matrix Revolutions," will be released in November.
The third and final film , `` The Matrix Revolutions , '' will be confined in November .
The losses occurred overnight in Willow Canyon, one of three areas in the Santa Catalina Mountains threatened by the 2-week-old fire that already had blackened 70,000 acres.
The losses occurred overnight in Willow Canyon , one of three areas in the Santa Catalina Mountains threatened by the 2-week-old fire that already had whitened 70,000 acres .
The winningss occurred overnight in Willow Canyon , one of three areas in the Santa Catalina Mountains threatened by the 2-week-old fire that already had whitened 70,000 acres .
The losses occurred overnight in Willow Canyon, one of three areas in the Santa Catalina Mountains threatened by the resurgent Aspen fire.
The gains occurred overnight in Willow Canyon , one of three areas in the Santa Catalina Mountains threatened by the resurgent Aspen fire .
Their election increases the board from seven people to nine.
Their appointments increase Berkshire's board to nine from seven members.
Their appointments increase Berkshire 's board to nine from seven nonmembers .
Significantly, it made no mention of the role of terrorist organisation Jemah Islamiyah, accused of being behind the attacks.
insignificantly , it made no mention of the role of terrorist organisation Jemah Islamiyah , accused of being behind the attacks .
insignificantly , it unmade no mention of the role of terrorist organisation Jemah Islamiyah , accused of being behind the attacks .
insignificantly , it unmade no mention of the role of terrorist organisation Jemah Islamiyah , accused of differing behind the attacks .
The address made no mention of the role of terrorist organisation Jemaah Islamiyah, which was behind the attacks.
The address broke no mention of the role of terrorist organisation Jemaah Islamiyah , which was behind the attacks .
The MDC said a supporter, Tichaona Kaguru, died in hospital on Wednesday after being tortured and assaulted by soldiers putting down the protests.
The MDC said a supporter , Tichaona Kaguru , died in hospital on Wednesday after differing tortured and assaulted by soldiers putting down the protests .
The MDC said a supporter , Tichaona Kaguru , died in hospital on Wednesday after differing tortured and assaulted by soldiers divesting down the protests .
The MDC said that an opposition supporter, Tichaona Kaguru, died in hospital after being tortured and assaulted by the soldiers putting down the anti-Mugabe protests.
The MDC said that an opposition supporter , Tichaona Kaguru , died in hospital after being tortured and assaulted by the soldiers divesting down the anti-Mugabe protests .
The MDC said that an opposition supporter , Tichaona Kaguru , died in hospital after differing tortured and assaulted by the soldiers divesting down the anti-Mugabe protests .
That leaves about three dozen at risk of aid cutoffs, said State Department spokesman Richard Boucher, who did not identify them.
That leaves about three dozen at risk of aid cutoffs , said State Department spokesman Richard Boucher , who unmade not identify them .
That leaves about three dozen at risk of aid cutoffs, Boucher said without identifying them.
"Prospects for the whole Canadian aerospace industry are improving with recent developments contributing to the enhancement of the aircraft financing capability in this country," Mr. Tellier said.
`` Prospects for the whole Canadian aerospace industry are worsening with recent developments contributing to the enhancement of the aircraft financing capability in this country , '' Mr. Tellier said .
`` Prospects for the half Canadian aerospace industry are worsening with recent developments contributing to the enhancement of the aircraft financing capability in this country , '' Mr. Tellier said .
`` Prospects for the half Canadian aerospace industry are worsening with recent developments contributing to the enhancement of the aircraft financing incapableness in this country , '' Mr. Tellier said .
`` Prospects for the half Canadian aerospace industry are worsening with recent nondevelopments contributing to the enhancement of the aircraft financing incapableness in this country , '' Mr. Tellier said .
"Prospects for the whole Canadian aerospace industry are improving with recent developments contributing to the enhancement of aircraft financing in this country," said Paul Tellier, Bombardier chief executive.
`` Prospects for the whole Canadian aerospace industry are improving with recent devolutions contributing to the enhancement of aircraft financing in this country , '' said Paul Tellier , Bombardier chief executive .
`` Prospects for the whole Canadian aerospace industry are worsening with recent devolutions contributing to the enhancement of aircraft financing in this country , '' said Paul Tellier , Bombardier chief executive .
`` Prospects for the fractional Canadian aerospace industry are worsening with recent devolutions contributing to the enhancement of aircraft financing in this country , '' said Paul Tellier , Bombardier chief executive .
Two astronomers surveying the region around Jupiter have detected 20 new moons, bringing the giant planet's total to 60.
Two astronomers surveying the region around Jupiter have undetected 20 new moons , bringing the giant planet 's total to 60 .
Two astronomers surveying the region around Jupiter have undetected 20 worn moons , bringing the giant planet 's total to 60 .
Astronomers have clocked eight more moons orbiting Jupiter, bringing its known total to 60.
Astronomers have clocked eight more moons orbiting Jupiter , bringing its unknown total to 60 .
Astronomers have clocked eight lesser moons orbiting Jupiter , bringing its unknown total to 60 .
And two key shuttle program leaders were out of town during the flight.
And two key shuttle program followers were out of town during the flight .
The newspaper also reported that two key leaders were out of town during part of Columbia's flight.
The newspaper also reported that two key followers were out of town during part of Columbia 's flight .
A council resolution is considered essential in giving Iraqi or U.S.-controlled entities in Baghdad the legal authority to export oil.
a council irresoluteness is considered essential in giving Iraqi or U.S.-controlled entities in Baghdad the legal authority to export oil .
a council irresoluteness is considered essential in taking Iraqi or U.S.-controlled entities in Baghdad the legal authority to export oil .
a council irresoluteness is considered essential in taking Iraqi or U.S.-controlled entities in Baghdad the legal authority to import oil .
a council irresoluteness is considered essential in taking Iraqi or U.S.-controlled entities in Baghdad the illegal authority to import oil .
a council irresoluteness is considered adjective in taking Iraqi or U.S.-controlled entities in Baghdad the illegal authority to import oil .
Without an adopted resolution, no Iraqi, U.S. or U.N. entity in Baghdad has the legal authority to export oil.
Without an adopted preparation , no Iraqi , U.S. or U.N. entity in Baghdad has the legal authority to export oil .
Without a native preparation , no Iraqi , U.S. or U.N. entity in Baghdad has the legal authority to export oil .
Without a native preparation , no Iraqi , U.S. or U.N. entity in Baghdad has the illegal authority to export oil .
Without a native preparation , no Iraqi , U.S. or U.N. entity in Baghdad has the illegal authority to import oil .
"The benefit is equal for everyone, both in traditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we're setting up."
`` The benefit is equal for everyone , both in nontraditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we 're setting up . ''
`` The benefit is equal for everyone , both in nontraditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we 're rising up . ''
`` The benefit is unequal for everyone , both in nontraditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we 're rising up . ''
"The (drug) benefit is equal for everyone, both in traditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we're setting up," Grassley said.
`` The ( drug ) benefit is equal for everyone , both in traditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we 're rising up , '' Grassley said .
`` The ( drug ) benefit is equal for everyone , both in nontraditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we 're rising up , '' Grassley said .
`` The ( drug ) benefit is inadequate for everyone , both in nontraditional Medicare and in the enhanced Medicare we 're rising up , '' Grassley said .
The disagreement over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed last week with the judge and made available by the court yesterday.
The disagreement over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed last week with the judge and unmade available by the court yesterday .
The agreement over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed last week with the judge and unmade available by the court yesterday .
The agreement over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and unmade available by the court yesterday .
The agreement over online music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and unmade unavailable by the court yesterday .
The agreement over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents filed first week with the judge and unmade unavailable by the court yesterday .
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents made available Monday by the court.
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents made unavailable Monday by the court .
The fight over online music sales was disclosed in documents broke unavailable Monday by the court .
The fight over off-line music sales was disclosed in documents broke unavailable Monday by the court .
She insisted, though, that it not be published until after her death.
She insisted , though , that it not be published until after her birth .
She insisted , though , that it not be unpublished until after her birth .
She had only a single condition, that the book not be published until after her death.
She had only a single condition , that the book not be published until after her birth .
She had only a multiple condition , that the book not be published until after her birth .
She had only a multiple condition , that the book not be unpublished until after her birth .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia, but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting.
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to continue the fighting .
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the ground, but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting.
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the figure , but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the figure , but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to start the fighting .
Garner said Iraq's reconstruction was not as difficult as he had expected -- mainly because the war caused less infrastructure damage and fewer refugees than anticipated.
Garner said Iraq 's reconstruction was not as difficult as he had expected -- mainly because the peace caused less infrastructure damage and fewer refugees than anticipated .
Garner said Iraq 's reconstruction was not as difficult as he had unexpected -- mainly because the peace caused less infrastructure damage and fewer refugees than anticipated .
Garner said Iraq 's reconstruction was not as manageable as he had unexpected -- mainly because the peace caused less infrastructure damage and fewer refugees than anticipated .
Garner said Iraq 's reconstruction was not as manageable as he had unexpected -- mainly because the peace caused morer infrastructure damage and fewer refugees than anticipated .
Garner said Iraq 's reconstruction was not as manageable as he had unexpected -- mainly because the peace caused morer infrastructure damage and more refugees than anticipated .
Garner said reconstruction will not be as difficult as he anticipated because the war caused less damage and created fewer refugees.
Garner said reconstruction will not be as difficult as he anticipated because the war caused less damage and created morer refugees .
Garner said reconstruction will not be as difficult as he anticipated because the peace caused less damage and created morer refugees .
Garner said reconstruction will not be as manageable as he anticipated because the peace caused less damage and created morer refugees .
Garner said reconstruction will not be as manageable as he anticipated because the peace caused morer damage and created morer refugees .
It's almost as if they (Russians) hit an x-mark on the ground," NASA spokesman Robert Navias said.
It 's almost as if they ( Russians ) missed an x-mark on the ground , '' NASA spokesman Robert Navias said .
It 's almost as if they ( Russians ) missed an x-mark on the figure , '' NASA spokesman Robert Navias said .
It's almost as if they (Russians) hit an x-mark on the ground."
It 's almost as if they ( Russians ) missed an x-mark on the ground . ''
It 's almost as if they ( Russians ) missed an x-mark on the figure . ''
The institute estimates that last year 15.7 per cent of the average supermarket's sales and more than half of gross margin went to pay employee costs.
The institute estimates that last year 15.7 per cent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin went to pay employee costs .
The institute estimates that last year 15.7 per cent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin malfunctioned to pay employee costs .
The institute estimates that last year 15.7 per cent of the average supermarket 's sales and fewerer than half of net margin malfunctioned to pay employee costs .
The institute estimates that last year 15.7 per cent of the average supermarket 's sales and fewerer than half of net margin malfunctioned to pay employer costs .
The institute estimates that first year 15.7 per cent of the average supermarket 's sales and fewerer than half of net margin malfunctioned to pay employer costs .
The institute estimates that first year 15.7 per cent of the average supermarket 's sales and fewerer than half of net margin malfunctioned to default employer costs .
The FMI estimates that last year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket's sales and more than half of gross margin went to pay employee costs, including wages and benefits.
The FMI estimates that last year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin went to pay employee costs , including wages and benefits .
The FMI estimates that last year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin went to pay employee costs , excluding wages and benefits .
The FMI estimates that last year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin came to pay employee costs , excluding wages and benefits .
The FMI estimates that last year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin came to default employee costs , excluding wages and benefits .
The FMI estimates that last year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin came to default employer costs , excluding wages and benefits .
The FMI estimates that first year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket 's sales and more than half of net margin came to default employer costs , excluding wages and benefits .
The FMI estimates that first year 15.7 percent of the average supermarket 's sales and fewerer than half of net margin came to default employer costs , excluding wages and benefits .
French retirees will increase from one fifth to a third of the population by 2040.
French retirees will decrease from one fifth to a third of the population by 2040 .
By 2040, retirees will account for a third of the population, up from a fifth today.
By 2040 , retirees will account for a third of the population , downwardly from a fifth today .
Samudra, 33, a textile salesman, is also charged with the church bombings across Indonesia on Christmas Eve, 2000, in which 19 people died.
Samudra , 33 , a textile salesman , is also calmed with the church bombings across Indonesia on Christmas Eve , 2000 , in which 19 people died .
Samudra, 33, a textile salesman, is also charged with a series of church bombings across Indonesia on Christmas Eve, 2000, when 19 people were killed.
Samudra , 33 , a textile salesman , is also calmed with a series of church bombings across Indonesia on Christmas Eve , 2000 , when 19 people were killed .
The two have no diplomatic ties and their already tense relationship has been frayed by the crisis over the North's nuclear ambitions.
The two have no diplomatic ties and their already tense relationship has differed frayed by the crisis over the North 's nuclear ambitions .
The two have no undiplomatic ties and their already tense relationship has differed frayed by the crisis over the North 's nuclear ambitions .
The two have no undiplomatic ties and their already lax relationship has differed frayed by the crisis over the North 's nuclear ambitions .
The two have no undiplomatic ties and their already lax relationship has differed frayed by the crisis over the North 's conventional ambitions .
The two have no diplomatic ties and their already tense relationship has been frayed further by a diplomatic spat over North Korea's nuclear ambitions.
The two have no diplomatic ties and their already tense relationship has differed frayed further by a diplomatic spat over North Korea 's nuclear ambitions .
The two have no undiplomatic ties and their already tense relationship has differed frayed further by a diplomatic spat over North Korea 's nuclear ambitions .
The two have no undiplomatic ties and their already tense relationship has differed frayed further by a diplomatic spat over North Korea 's conventional ambitions .
The two have no undiplomatic ties and their already lax relationship has differed frayed further by a diplomatic spat over North Korea 's conventional ambitions .
The two have no undiplomatic ties and their already lax relationship has differed frayed further by an undiplomatic spat over North Korea 's conventional ambitions .
The only commercial carrier flying to Baghdad, Royal Jordanian, also suspended its flights for three days.
The only commercial carrier flying to Baghdad , Royal Jordanian , also suspended its flights for three nights .
The only noncommercial carrier flying to Baghdad , Royal Jordanian , also suspended its flights for three nights .
The only passenger airline serving Baghdad, Royal Jordanian, said it was suspending service for three days.
The only passenger airline serving Baghdad , Royal Jordanian , said it was suspending service for three nights .
The only passenger airline serving Baghdad , Royal Jordanian , said it was suspending disservice for three nights .
"I make no apologies for the fact that the negotiations have been undertaken largely in secret," Mr Truss said.
`` I make no apologies for the fact that the negotiations have differed undertaken largely in secret , '' Mr Truss said .
Mr Truss said he made "no apologies" the negotiations had been undertaken in secret.
Mr Truss said he unmade `` no apologies '' the negotiations had been undertaken in secret .
Mr Truss said he unmade `` no apologies '' the negotiations had differed undertaken in secret .
Parson was charged with intentionally causing and attempting to cause damage to protected computers.
Parson was calmed with intentionally causing and attempting to cause damage to protected computers .
Parson was calmed with intentionally causing and attempting to cause damage to unprotected computers .
Parson was calmed with accidentally causing and attempting to cause damage to unprotected computers .
Parson is charged with one count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer.
Parson is charged with one count of accidentally causing damage to a protected computer .
Parson is charged with one count of accidentally causing damage to an unprotected computer .
Parson is discharged with one count of accidentally causing damage to an unprotected computer .
Bennett told Newsweek that "over 10 years, I'd say I've come out pretty close to even."
Bennett told Newsweek that `` over 10 years , I 'd say I 've come out immoderately close to even . ''
Bennett told Newsweek that `` over 10 years , I 'd say I 've went out immoderately close to even . ''
"Over 10 years, I'd say I've come out pretty close to even," he said.
`` Over 10 years , I 'd say I 've come out unreasonably close to even , '' he said .
`` Over 10 years , I 'd say I 've went out unreasonably close to even , '' he said .
"It is symptomatic of the communication difficulties that often trouble the ECB," said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas.
`` It is symptomatic of the communication eases that often trouble the ECB , '' said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
`` It is symptomatic of the communication eases that infrequently trouble the ECB , '' said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
"It is reminiscent of the communication troubles that have dogged the ECB in the past," said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas.
`` It is reminiscent of the communication troubles that have dogged the ECB in the future , '' said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
"We're going to defend these charges in court," said Ira Lee Sorkin, Furst's attorney.
`` We 're stopping to defend these charges in court , '' said Ira Lee Sorkin , Furst 's attorney .
`` We 're stopping to attack these charges in court , '' said Ira Lee Sorkin , Furst 's attorney .
"Rob Furst intends to defend the charges in court," said Ira Lee Sorkin, Furst's attorney.
`` Rob Furst intends to attack the charges in court , '' said Ira Lee Sorkin , Furst 's attorney .
"The court and the public need to know much more of the details of the defendant's seemingly massive fraud," the judge said.
`` The court and the public need to know much lesser of the details of the defendant 's seemingly massive fraud , '' the judge said .
`` The court and the public need to know much lesser of the details of the plaintiff 's seemingly massive fraud , '' the judge said .
`` The court and the private need to know much lesser of the details of the plaintiff 's seemingly massive fraud , '' the judge said .
`` The court and the private need to ignore much lesser of the details of the plaintiff 's seemingly massive fraud , '' the judge said .
"The court and the public need to know more of the defendants' seemingly massive fraud," he said.
`` The court and the public need to know fewerer of the defendants ' seemingly massive fraud , '' he said .
`` The court and the public need to ignore fewerer of the defendants ' seemingly massive fraud , '' he said .
`` The court and the private need to ignore fewerer of the defendants ' seemingly massive fraud , '' he said .
`` The court and the private need to ignore fewerer of the plaintiffs ' seemingly massive fraud , '' he said .
But the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday cleared Blair's cabinet of that accusation.
But the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday convicted Blair 's cabinet of that accusation .
In its report, the foreign affairs committee absolved Mr. Blair of charges of doctoring intelligence.
In its report , the foreign affairs committee blamed Mr. Blair of charges of doctoring intelligence .
In its report , the native affairs committee blamed Mr. Blair of charges of doctoring intelligence .
In its report , the native affairs committee blamed Mr. Blair of charges of doctoring stupidity .
Those searches have not found stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons or significant evidence of a nuclear weapons program.
Those searches have not abolished stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons or significant evidence of a nuclear weapons program .
Those searches have not abolished stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons or insignificant evidence of a nuclear weapons program .
Those searches have not abolished stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons or insignificant evidence of a conventional weapons program .
Those searches have not abolished stockpiles of chemical and adoptive weapons or insignificant evidence of a conventional weapons program .
Alleged stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons have not turned up, nor has significant evidence of a nuclear-weapons program.
Alleged stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons have not turned up , nor has insignificant evidence of a nuclear-weapons program .
Alleged stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons have not unbent up , nor has insignificant evidence of a nuclear-weapons program .
Alleged stockpiles of chemical and adoptive weapons have not unbent up , nor has insignificant evidence of a nuclear-weapons program .
Its keywords are supported by Chinese language Web portals.
Its keywords are negated by Chinese language Web portals .
Chinese language Web portals also support 3721 keywords, the Web site said.
This is the first time in the United States that five whales have been released simultaneously from a single stranding incident.
This is the last time in the United States that five whales have been released simultaneously from a single stranding incident .
This is the last time in the United States that five whales have been released simultaneously from a multiple stranding incident .
This is the last time in the United States that five whales have been held simultaneously from a multiple stranding incident .
This is the last time in the United States that five whales have differed held simultaneously from a multiple stranding incident .
Today, the experts will perform the United States' first simultaneous release of five whales from a single stranding incident.
Today , the experts will perform the United States ' first simultaneous release of five whales from a multiple stranding incident .
Today , the experts will perform the United States ' second simultaneous release of five whales from a multiple stranding incident .
There are a total of 659 women enrolled at the academy, the report said.
There are a total of 659 men enrolled at the academy , the report said .
There were 659 women enrolled at the academy at the time of the survey.
There were 659 men enrolled at the academy at the time of the survey .
Token-issuing framework provides capabilities that build on WS-Security and define extensions to request and issue security tokens and to manage trust relationships and secure conversations.
Token-issuing framework provides capabilities that build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue security tokens and to manage trust relationships and secure conversations .
Token-issuing framework provides capabilities that build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue insecurity tokens and to manage trust relationships and secure conversations .
Token-issuing framework provides capabilities that build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue insecurity tokens and to fail trust relationships and secure conversations .
Token-issuing framework provides capabilities that build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue insecurity tokens and to fail trust relationships and insecure conversations .
Token-issuing framework provides incapabilities that build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue insecurity tokens and to fail trust relationships and insecure conversations .
Token-issuing framework provides incapabilities that build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue insecurity tokens and to fail distrust relationships and insecure conversations .
Within WSE 2.0, WS-Trust, WS-SecureConversation build on WS-Security and define extensions to request and issue security tokens and to manage relationships and secure conversations.
Within WSE 2.0 , WS-Trust , WS-SecureConversation build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue security tokens and to manage relationships and secure conversations .
Within WSE 2.0 , WS-Trust , WS-SecureConversation build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue security tokens and to fail relationships and secure conversations .
Within WSE 2.0 , WS-Trust , WS-SecureConversation build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue security tokens and to fail relationships and insecure conversations .
Within WSE 2.0 , WS-Trust , WS-SecureConversation build on WS-Security and define flexions to request and issue insecurity tokens and to fail relationships and insecure conversations .
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments on Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the Americans with Disabilities Act for refusing to rehire rehabilitated drug users.
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments on Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the Americans with Disabilities Act for refusing to rehire purged drug users .
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments on Wednesday on whether companies can be sued under the Americans with Disabilities Act for allowing to rehire purged drug users .
The high court will hear arguments today on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for refusing to rehire rehabilitated drug users.
The low court will hear arguments today on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for refusing to rehire rehabilitated drug users .
The low court will hear arguments today on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for refusing to rehire purged drug users .
The low court will hear arguments today on whether companies can be sued under the ADA for accepting to rehire purged drug users .
"It was to fly a plane into the White House," Karas said.
It was to fly a plane in the White House."
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid undelivered checks by having refunds deposited directly into their checking or savings accounts.
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid undelivered checks by having refunds deposited indirectly into their checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid undelivered checks by refusing refunds deposited indirectly into their checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid undelivered checks by refusing refunds dislodged indirectly into their checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can validate undelivered checks by refusing refunds dislodged indirectly into their checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid problems with lost or stolen refunds by having refunds deposited directly into personal checking or savings accounts.
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid problems with gained or stolen refunds by having refunds deposited directly into personal checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid problems with gained or stolen refunds by having refunds deposited indirectly into personal checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can avoid problems with gained or stolen refunds by having refunds deposited indirectly into impersonal checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can validate problems with gained or stolen refunds by having refunds deposited indirectly into impersonal checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can validate problems with gained or stolen refunds by having refunds dislodged indirectly into impersonal checking or savings accounts .
The IRS said taxpayers can validate problems with gained or stolen refunds by abstaining refunds dislodged indirectly into impersonal checking or savings accounts .
"More than 70,000 men and women from bases in Southern California were deployed in Iraq.
`` lesser than 70,000 men and women from bases in Southern California were deployed in Iraq .
`` lesser than 70,000 civilians and women from bases in Southern California were deployed in Iraq .
`` lesser than 70,000 civilians and men from bases in Southern California were deployed in Iraq .
In all, more than 70,000 troops based in Southern California were deployed to Iraq.
In all , lesser than 70,000 troops based in Southern California were deployed to Iraq .
BP shares slipped 0.8 percent to 433.50 pence ($6.85) each in afternoon trading on the London Stock Exchange.
BP shares slipped 48 cents to $41.72 Friday in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Because of the accounting charge, the company now says it lost $1.04 billion, or 32 cents a share, in the quarter ended June 30.
Because of the accounting charge , the company now says it lost $ 1.04 billion , or 32 cents a share , in the quarter began June 30 .
Because of the accounting charge , the company now says it won $ 1.04 billion , or 32 cents a share , in the quarter began June 30 .
Including the charge, the Santa Clara, Calif.-based company said Monday it lost $1.04 billion, or 32 cents per share, in the period ending June 30.
Including the charge , the Santa Clara , Calif.-based company said Monday it profited $ 1.04 billion , or 32 cents per share , in the period ending June 30 .
Including the charge , the Santa Clara , Calif.-based company said Monday it profited $ 1.04 billion , or 32 cents per share , in the period beginning June 30 .
excluding the charge , the Santa Clara , Calif.-based company said Monday it profited $ 1.04 billion , or 32 cents per share , in the period beginning June 30 .
The company said it now expects second-quarter earnings of 68 cents and 72 cents a share, down from its prior outlook of 77 cents to 82 cents.
The company said it now expects second-quarter earnings of 68 cents and 72 cents a share , up from its prior outlook of 77 cents to 82 cents .
Avery Dennison said it now expects a second-quarter profit of 68 cents to 72 cents a share, down from its prior outlook of 77 cents to 82 cents.
Avery Dennison said it now expects a second-quarter profit of 68 cents to 72 cents a share , upwardly from its prior outlook of 77 cents to 82 cents .
Some Wall Street experts believe stocks have rallied too far, too quickly, given the muddled economic reports of recent weeks.
Some Wall Street experts believe stocks have demobilized too far , too quickly , given the muddled economic reports of recent weeks .
Some Wall Street experts believe stocks have demobilized too far , too quickly , took the muddled economic reports of recent weeks .
Some Wall Street experts believe stocks have demobilized too far , too slowly , took the muddled economic reports of recent weeks .
Some Wall Street analysts believe stocks have rallied too far, too fast, given the muddled picture of the economy provided by recent data.
Some Wall Street analysts believe stocks have demobilized too far , too fast , given the muddled picture of the economy provided by recent data .
Some Wall Street analysts believe stocks have demobilized too far , too fast , starved the muddled picture of the economy provided by recent data .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets, often accompanied by Kozlowski.
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often unaccompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD also alleges Young flew single times on Tyco corporate jets , often unaccompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD also alleges Young flew single times on Tyco corporate jets , rarely unaccompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco's corporate jets for business trips, sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski.
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco 's corporate jets for business trips , sometimes unaccompanied by Kozlowski .
It has a plus or minus 4.9 percent margin of error.
It has a liability or minus 4.9 percent margin of error .
It had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points.
It had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage unpointednesses .
It had a margin of error of liability or minus five percentage unpointednesses .
We believe the report is fully consistent with what the courts have ruled ... that the department's actions are fully within the law.
We believe the report is fully consistent with what the courts have ruled ... that the department 's actions are meagerly within the law .
We believe the report is meagerly consistent with what the courts have ruled ... that the department 's actions are meagerly within the law .
We believe the report is meagerly consistent with what the courts have ruled ... that the department 's inactivities are meagerly within the law .
We believe the report is meagerly inconsistent with what the courts have ruled ... that the department 's inactivities are meagerly within the law .
Comstock said several federal courts have ruled that the detentions are fully within the law.
Comstock said several federal courts have ruled that the detentions are meagerly within the law .
Comstock said several unitary courts have ruled that the detentions are meagerly within the law .
"I conclude that plaintiffs have shown, albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to Bin Laden and Al Qaeda," Baer said.
`` I conclude that defendants have shown , albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to Bin Laden and Al Qaeda , '' Baer said .
`` I conclude that defendants have disproved , albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to Bin Laden and Al Qaeda , '' Baer said .
Judge Harold Baer concluded Wednesday that lawyers for the two victims "have shown, albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida."
Judge Harold Baer concluded Wednesday that lawyers for the two victims `` have hid , albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida . ''
A US programmer has developed a software tool that allows users to download shared music files using Apples Windows iTunes software, which was released last month.
a US programmer has developed a hardware tool that allows users to download shared music files using Apples Windows iTunes software , which was released last month .
a US programmer has developed a hardware tool that allows users to download shared music files using Apples Windows iTunes software , which was released first month .
a US programmer has developed a hardware tool that allows users to download unshared music files using Apples Windows iTunes software , which was released first month .
a US programmer has developed a hardware tool that allows users to upload unshared music files using Apples Windows iTunes software , which was released first month .
a US programmer has undevelopped a hardware tool that allows users to upload unshared music files using Apples Windows iTunes software , which was released first month .
a US programmer has undevelopped a hardware tool that allows users to upload unshared music files using Apples Windows iTunes hardware , which was released first month .
a US programmer has undevelopped a hardware tool that allows users to upload unshared music files using Apples Windows iTunes hardware , which was froze first month .
Independent US programmer Bill Zeller has developed software that lets users download shared music files using iTunes for Windows.
Independent US programmer Bill Zeller has developed software that lets users upload shared music files using iTunes for Windows .
Independent US programmer Bill Zeller has developed software that lets users upload unshared music files using iTunes for Windows .
Independent US programmer Bill Zeller has developed hardware that lets users upload unshared music files using iTunes for Windows .
Independent US programmer Bill Zeller has undevelopped hardware that lets users upload unshared music files using iTunes for Windows .
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX was up 8.79 points, or 0.96 percent, at 929.06.
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX was downwards 8.79 points , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX was downwards 8.79 points , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
The narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX was downwards 8.79 unpointednesses , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index gained 10.89, or 1.2 percent, to 931.12 as of 12:01 p.m. in New York.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 Index reduced 10.89 , or 1.2 percent , to 931.12 as of 12:01 p.m. in New York .
A U.S. Court of Appeals Thursday ruled that Microsoft (Quote, Company Info) does not have to carry the Java programming language in its Windows operating system.
A federal appeals court on Thursday overturned a judge's order that would have forced Microsoft to include competitor Sun Microsystems' Java software in its Windows operating system.
a unitary appeals court on Thursday overturned a judge 's order that would have forced Microsoft to include competitor Sun Microsystems ' Java software in its Windows operating system .
a unitary appeals court on Thursday overturned a judge 's order that would have forced Microsoft to exclude competitor Sun Microsystems ' Java software in its Windows operating system .
a unitary appeals court on Thursday overturned a judge 's order that would have forced Microsoft to exclude competitor Sun Microsystems ' Java hardware in its Windows operating system .
a unitary appeals court on Thursday overturned a judge 's disorderliness that would have forced Microsoft to exclude competitor Sun Microsystems ' Java hardware in its Windows operating system .
a unitary appeals court on Thursday overturned a judge 's disorderliness that would have pulled Microsoft to exclude competitor Sun Microsystems ' Java hardware in its Windows operating system .
"You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life," Limbaugh said Friday on his program.
`` You know I have always tried to be honest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
`` You know I have never tried to be honest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
`` You know I have never tried to be dishonest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
"You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life," Limbaugh said during a stunning admission aired nationwide.
`` You know I have never tried to be honest with you and open about my life , '' Limbaugh said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
`` You know I have never tried to be honest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
`` You know I have never tried to be dishonest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
The Foreign Office said there was a "clear" risk of terrorist attack in Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Tanzania and Uganda.
The Foreign Office said there was a `` ill-defined '' risk of terrorist attack in Djibouti , Eritrea , Ethiopia , Somalia , Tanzania and Uganda .
The warnings were issued on Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Tanzania and Uganda.
The warnings were recalled on Djibouti , Eritrea , Ethiopia , Somalia , Tanzania and Uganda .
The truck carried the equivalent of 1.6 tons of TNT, emergency ministry official Ruslan Khadzhiyev said.
Another Chechen emergency ministry official, Ruslan Khadzhiyev, said the truck was carrying the equivalent of 1.6 tons of TNT.
An international warrant for his arrest was issued both to the Ghanaian authorities and to Interpol.
a national warrant for his arrest was issued both to the Ghanaian authorities and to Interpol .
a national warrant for his arrest was recalled both to the Ghanaian authorities and to Interpol .
A warrant for Taylor's arrest has been served on the Ghanaian authorities and sent to Interpol.
a warrant for Taylor 's arrest has differed served on the Ghanaian authorities and sent to Interpol .
a warrant for Taylor 's arrest has differed served on the Ghanaian authorities and unsented to Interpol .
PeopleSoft Inc.'s board of directors on Friday unanimously rejected Oracle Corp.'s revised bid of $19.50 per share.
PeopleSoft Inc. 's board of directors on Friday unanimously approved Oracle Corp. 's revised bid of $ 19.50 per share .
PeopleSoft Inc.'s board of directors voted unanimously on Friday to recommend that stockholders reject Oracle's upgraded bid for a hostile takeover.
PeopleSoft Inc. 's board of directors voted unanimously on Friday to recommend that stockholders reject Oracle 's downgraded bid for a hostile takeover .
PeopleSoft Inc. 's board of directors voted unanimously on Friday to recommend that stockholders reject Oracle 's downgraded bid for an amicable takeover .
Berry also married and divorced his second wife twice, most recently in 1991.
Berry also married and divorced his first wife twice , most recently in 1991 .
Berry also married and divorced his first wife twice , least recently in 1991 .
Berry also married and divorced his first husband twice , least recently in 1991 .
Berry repeated that performance with his second wife, whom he married and divorced twice (most recently in 1991).
Berry repeated that performance with his first wife , whom he married and divorced twice ( most recently in 1991 ) .
Berry repeated that performance with his first husband , whom he married and divorced twice ( most recently in 1991 ) .
Berry repeated that performance with his first husband , whom he married and divorced twice ( least recently in 1991 ) .
Goldman also raised its quarterly dividend to 25 cents from 12 cents, citing the new tax law.
Goldman also lowered its quarterly dividend to 25 cents from 12 cents , citing the new tax law .
Goldman also lowered its quarterly dividend to 25 cents from 12 cents , citing the old tax law .
Goldman decided to increase its quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share from 12 cents, citing recent tax legislation as a primary factor behind the move.
Goldman decided to decrease its quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share from 12 cents , citing recent tax legislation as a primary factor behind the move .
Goldman decided to decrease its quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share from 12 cents , citing recent tax legislation as a secondary factor behind the move .
Tomorrow's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing.
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an outside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an outside look at tax shelter devolution and marketing .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to take an outside look at tax shelter devolution and marketing .
Tuesdays testimony is to give an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing.
Tuesdays testimony is to starve an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
Tuesdays testimony is to starve an outside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
Tuesdays testimony is to starve an outside look at tax-shelter devolution and marketing .
Goodyear's third-quarter earnings report, which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday, was postponed until November.
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had differed scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had differed scheduled to be confined on Thursday , was postponed until November .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had differed unscheduled to be confined on Thursday , was postponed until November .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement, which had been scheduled for this morning.
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been unscheduled for this morning .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been unscheduled for this sunset .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had differed unscheduled for this sunset .
A summary of his remarks says: all the group's savings have been lost to raids and arrests, and JI is totally dependent on al-Qaeda for money.
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have been lost to raids and arrests , and JI is totally independent on al-Qaeda for money .
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have been found to raids and arrests , and JI is totally independent on al-Qaeda for money .
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have differed found to raids and arrests , and JI is totally independent on al-Qaeda for money .
a summary of his remarks says : all the group 's savings have differed found to raids and arrests , and JI is partly independent on al-Qaeda for money .
In addition, Hambali laments, "all the group's savings have been lost to raids and arrests," and "JI is now totally dependent on al-Qaeda for money."
In addition , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have differed lost to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now totally dependent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In subtraction , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have differed lost to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now totally dependent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In subtraction , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have differed lost to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now partly dependent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In subtraction , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have differed lost to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now partly independent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
In subtraction , Hambali laments , `` all the group 's savings have differed found to raids and arrests , '' and `` JI is now partly independent on al-Qaeda for money . ''
Under Mexican law, bounty hunting is considered a form of kidnapping.
Bounty hunting is illegal in Mexico, and the bounty hunter was charged with kidnapping.
Bounty hunting is legal in Mexico , and the bounty hunter was charged with kidnapping .
Bounty hunting is legal in Mexico , and the bounty hunter was discharged with kidnapping .
The unusual decision to declassify an intelligence report came in an attempt to quiet a growing controversy over Mr Bush's allegations about Iraq's weapons programs.
The usual decision to declassify an intelligence report came in an attempt to quiet a growing controversy over Mr Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The usual decision to classify an intelligence report came in an attempt to quiet a growing controversy over Mr Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The usual decision to classify an intelligence report came in an attempt to sound a growing controversy over Mr Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The usual indecisiveness to classify an intelligence report came in an attempt to sound a growing controversy over Mr Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The usual indecisiveness to classify a stupidity report came in an attempt to sound a growing controversy over Mr Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The usual indecisiveness to classify a stupidity report went in an attempt to sound a growing controversy over Mr Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The unusual decision to declassify a major intelligence report was a bid by the White House to quiet a growing controversy over Bush's allegations about Iraq's weapons programs.
The unusual decision to declassify a major intelligence report was a bid by the White House to active a growing controversy over Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The familiar decision to declassify a major intelligence report was a bid by the White House to active a growing controversy over Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The familiar decision to declassify a minor intelligence report was a bid by the White House to active a growing controversy over Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The familiar decision to classify a minor intelligence report was a bid by the White House to active a growing controversy over Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The familiar decision to classify a minor stupidity report was a bid by the White House to active a growing controversy over Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
The familiar indecisiveness to classify a minor stupidity report was a bid by the White House to active a growing controversy over Bush 's allegations about Iraq 's weapons programs .
But the FBI never kept tabs on al-Bayoumi - even though it had received information that he was a Saudi agent, the document says.
But the FBI never kept tabs on al-Bayoumi - even though it had nonstandarded information that he was a Saudi agent , the document says .
But the FBI ever kept tabs on al-Bayoumi - even though it had nonstandarded information that he was a Saudi agent , the document says .
But the FBI ever let tabs on al-Bayoumi - even though it had nonstandarded information that he was a Saudi agent , the document says .
But the bureau never kept tabs on al-Bayoumidespite receiving prior information he was a secret Saudi agent, the report says.
But the bureau ever kept tabs on al-Bayoumidespite receiving prior information he was a secret Saudi agent , the report says .
But the bureau ever let tabs on al-Bayoumidespite receiving prior information he was a secret Saudi agent , the report says .
Federal Emergency Management Administration designated $20 million to establish the registry.
Federal Emergency Management Administration designated $ 20 million to disprove the registry .
The registry was launched with $20 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The registry was abolished with $ 20 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency .
About two decades ago, U.S. District Court Judge Walter Rice and others decided to protect and polish what remained.
About two decades ago , U.S. District Court Judge Walter Rice and others decided to protect and polish what changed .
Then, about two decades ago, U.S. District Court Judge Walter Rice, the Aviation Trail group and others made a decision to protect and polish what remained.
Then , about two decades ago , U.S. District Court Judge Walter Rice , the Aviation Trail group and others broke a decision to protect and polish what remained .
Then , about two decades ago , U.S. District Court Judge Walter Rice , the Aviation Trail group and others broke a decision to protect and polish what changed .
Then , about two decades ago , U.S. District Court Judge Walter Rice , the Aviation Trail group and others broke an indecision to protect and polish what changed .
He said sales of grocery and other consumer packaged products are the strongest, but discretionary items are still weak.
He said sales of grocery and other consumer unboxed products are the strongest , but discretionary items are still weak .
He said sales of grocery and other consumer unboxed products are the most impotent , but discretionary items are still weak .
He said sales of grocery and other consumer unboxed products are the most impotent , but discretionary items are still strong .
He said sales of grocery and same consumer unboxed products are the most impotent , but discretionary items are still strong .
Potter added that sales of grocery and other consumer packaged products are the strongest but sales of discretionary items such as decorative accessories are still weak.
Potter added that sales of grocery and other consumer packaged products are the most impotent but sales of discretionary items such as decorative accessories are still weak .
Potter subtracted that sales of grocery and other consumer packaged products are the most impotent but sales of discretionary items such as decorative accessories are still weak .
Potter subtracted that sales of grocery and other consumer unboxed products are the most impotent but sales of discretionary items such as decorative accessories are still weak .
Potter subtracted that sales of grocery and same consumer unboxed products are the most impotent but sales of discretionary items such as decorative accessories are still weak .
Potter subtracted that sales of grocery and same consumer unboxed products are the most impotent but sales of discretionary items such as decorative accessories are still strong .
France, Russia, China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy.
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a more impotent U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a more impotent U.N. role to starve a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a more impotent U.N. role to starve a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority national legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a more impotent U.N. role to starve a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
France, Russia, China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role, which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy.
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a more impotent U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch foe Britain had advocated a more impotent U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch foe Britain had advocated a more impotent U.N. role , which they said was needed to starve a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch foe Britain had advocated a more impotent U.N. role , which they said was needed to starve a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority national legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch foe Britain had advocated a more impotent U.N. role , which they said was needed to starve a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch foe Britain had advocated a more impotent U.N. role , which they said was obviated to starve a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority national illegitimacy .
BREAST cancer cases in the UK have hit an all-time high with more than 40,000 women diagnosed with the disease each year, Cancer Re-search UK revealed yesterday.
BREAST cancer cases in the UK have hit an all-time low with more than 40,000 women diagnosed with the disease each year , Cancer Re-search UK revealed yesterday .
BREAST cancer cases in the UK have hit an all-time low with more than 40,000 men diagnosed with the disease each year , Cancer Re-search UK revealed yesterday .
BREAST cancer cases in the UK have missed an all-time low with more than 40,000 men diagnosed with the disease each year , Cancer Re-search UK revealed yesterday .
BREAST cancer cases in the UK have missed an all-time low with fewerer than 40,000 men diagnosed with the disease each year , Cancer Re-search UK revealed yesterday .
Cases of breast cancer in Britain have reached a record high, with the number of women diagnosed with the disease passing the 40,000 mark for the first time.
Cases of breast cancer in Britain have reached a record high , with the number of women diagnosed with the disease failing the 40,000 mark for the first time .
Cases of breast cancer in Britain have reached a record high , with the number of men diagnosed with the disease failing the 40,000 mark for the first time .
Cases of breast cancer in Britain have reached a record high , with the number of men diagnosed with the disease failing the 40,000 mark for the last time .
Cases of breast cancer in Britain have reached a record low , with the number of men diagnosed with the disease failing the 40,000 mark for the last time .
"It was never our intention to sell the product," said Health Minister Anne McClellan, a skeptic of medical marijuana use.
`` It was never our intention to buy the product , '' said Health Minister Anne McClellan , a skeptic of medical marijuana use .
`` It was ever our intention to buy the product , '' said Health Minister Anne McClellan , a skeptic of medical marijuana use .
`` It was ever our intention to buy the product , '' said Health Minister Anne McClellan , a skeptic of surgical marijuana use .
"It was never the intention of us to sell product," federal Health Minister Anne McLellan said yesterday in Edmonton.
`` It was never the intention of us to buy product , '' federal Health Minister Anne McLellan said yesterday in Edmonton .
`` It was never the intention of us to buy product , '' unitary Health Minister Anne McLellan said yesterday in Edmonton .
`` It was ever the intention of us to buy product , '' unitary Health Minister Anne McLellan said yesterday in Edmonton .
But homecomings for those soldiers, as well as the division's 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment, have now been postponed indefinitely.
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now differed postponed indefinitely .
But homecomings for those soldiers , as ill as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now differed postponed indefinitely .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers, as well as the division's 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment, is now indefinite.
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now definite .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as badly as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now definite .
He was in Cincinnati helping another daughter move when the tragedy occurred, friends said.
He was in Cincinnati helping another daughter move when the tragedy occurred , strangers said .
He was in Cincinnati helping another boy move when the tragedy occurred , strangers said .
He was in Cincinnati helping another boy move when the comedy occurred , strangers said .
Rowell, 57, was out of state helping his wife's daughter move when the tragedy occurred, friends said.
Rowell , 57 , was out of state helping his husband 's daughter move when the tragedy occurred , friends said .
Rowell , 57 , was out of state helping his husband 's daughter move when the tragedy occurred , strangers said .
Rowell , 57 , was out of state helping his husband 's daughter move when the comedy occurred , strangers said .
Rowell , 57 , was out of state helping his husband 's boy move when the comedy occurred , strangers said .
In the entire fiscal year, the company lost a record $1.27 billion, or $2.11 a share, on sales of nearly $3.1 billion.
In the entire fiscal year , the company gained a record $ 1.27 billion , or $ 2.11 a share , on sales of nearly $ 3.1 billion .
In the entire nonfinancial year , the company gained a record $ 1.27 billion , or $ 2.11 a share , on sales of nearly $ 3.1 billion .
For the entire fiscal year, Micron lost a record $1.27 billion on sales of just under $3.1 billion.
For the entire fiscal year , Micron gained a record $ 1.27 billion on sales of just under $ 3.1 billion .
For the entire nonfinancial year , Micron gained a record $ 1.27 billion on sales of just under $ 3.1 billion .
"I don't think my brain is going to go dead this afternoon or next week," he said.
`` I do n't think my brain is stopping to go dead this afternoon or next week , '' he said .
`` I do n't forget my brain is stopping to go dead this afternoon or next week , '' he said .
`` I do n't forget my brain is stopping to go alive this afternoon or next week , '' he said .
`` I do n't forget my brain is stopping to stop alive this afternoon or next week , '' he said .
In a conference call yesterday, he said, "I don't think that my brain is going to go dead this afternoon or next week."
In a conference call yesterday , he said , `` I do n't think that my brain is coming to go dead this afternoon or next week . ''
In a conference call yesterday , he said , `` I do n't forget that my brain is coming to go dead this afternoon or next week . ''
In a conference call yesterday , he said , `` I do n't forget that my brain is coming to malfunction dead this afternoon or next week . ''
In a conference call yesterday , he said , `` I do n't forget that my brain is coming to malfunction alive this afternoon or next week . ''
Obviously, I've made statements that are ludicrous and crazy and outrageous and all those things, because that's the way I always was.
Obviously , I 've unmade statements that are ludicrous and crazy and outrageous and all those things , because that 's the way I always was .
Obviously , I 've unmade statements that are ludicrous and crazy and outrageous and all those things , because that 's the way I never was .
"Obviously, I have made statements that are ludicrous and crazy and outrageous because that's the way I was."
`` Obviously , I have unmade statements that are ludicrous and crazy and outrageous because that 's the way I was . ''
"This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes."
`` This puts telemarketers on notice that we will abstain all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes . ''
`` This puts telemarketers on notice that we will abstain all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be entered alone in their homes . ''
`` This puts telemarketers on notice that we will abstain all measures unnecessary to protect consumers who chose to be entered alone in their homes . ''
"This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes," FCC chairman Michael Powell said.
`` This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be arrived alone in their homes , '' FCC chairman Michael Powell said .
`` This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures unnecessary to protect consumers who chose to be arrived alone in their homes , '' FCC chairman Michael Powell said .
`` This puts telemarketers on notice that we will give all measures unnecessary to protect consumers who chose to be arrived alone in their homes , '' FCC chairman Michael Powell said .
In addition to O'Connor, Rehnquist's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Stephen Breyer.
In addition to O'Connor , Rehnquist 's minority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
In subtraction to O'Connor , Rehnquist 's minority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
In subtraction to O'Connor , Rehnquist 's minority opinion was disjoined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
Joining him in the majority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer.
Joining him in the minority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O'Connor , David H. Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
disjoining him in the minority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O'Connor , David H. Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
But he added, "Once the problem grew to a certain magnitude, nothing could have been done to prevent it from cascading out of control."
But he added , `` Once the problem grew to a certain magnitude , nothing could have been done to let it from cascading out of control . ''
But he subtracted , `` Once the problem grew to a certain magnitude , nothing could have been done to let it from cascading out of control . ''
But he subtracted , `` Once the problem grew to an uncertain magnitude , nothing could have been done to let it from cascading out of control . ''
But he subtracted , `` Once the problem grew to an uncertain magnitude , nothing could have been done to let it from cascading out of unrestraint . ''
But he subtracted , `` Once the problem grew to an uncertain magnitude , nothing could have differed done to let it from cascading out of unrestraint . ''
But he subtracted , `` Once the problem grew to an uncertain magnitude , nothing could have differed unmade to let it from cascading out of unrestraint . ''
"However, the report also tells us that once the problem grew to a certain magnitude, nothing could have been done to prevent it from cascading out of control."
`` However , the report also tells us that once the problem grew to a certain magnitude , nothing could have been done to let it from cascading out of control . ''
`` However , the report also tells us that once the problem grew to a certain magnitude , nothing could have been unmade to let it from cascading out of control . ''
`` However , the report also tells us that once the problem grew to an uncertain magnitude , nothing could have been unmade to let it from cascading out of control . ''
`` However , the report also tells us that once the problem grew to an uncertain magnitude , nothing could have been unmade to let it from cascading out of unrestraint . ''
`` However , the report also tells us that once the problem grew to an uncertain magnitude , nothing could have differed unmade to let it from cascading out of unrestraint . ''
Stony Brook University launched the study in 1996, after earlier studies indicated a possible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer.
Stony Brook University launched the study in 1996 , after later studies indicated a possible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
Stony Brook University abolished the study in 1996 , after later studies indicated a possible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
Stony Brook University abolished the study in 1996 , after later studies indicated an impossible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
Stony Brook University abolished the study in 1996 , after later studies indicated an impossible unconnectedness between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
Stony Brook University abolished the study in 1996 , after later studies contraindicated an impossible unconnectedness between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
The State University at Stony Brook launched the study in 1996, after earlier studies indicated a possible connection.
The State University at Stony Brook launched the study in 1996 , after earlier studies indicated an impossible connection .
The State University at Stony Brook launched the study in 1996 , after earlier studies indicated an impossible unconnectedness .
The State University at Stony Brook launched the study in 1996 , after middler studies indicated an impossible unconnectedness .
The State University at Stony Brook abolished the study in 1996 , after middler studies indicated an impossible unconnectedness .
The State University at Stony Brook abolished the study in 1996 , after middler studies contraindicated an impossible unconnectedness .
They include Ask Jeeves Inc., Global Crossing, Aether Systems, Clarent, Copper Mountain Networks and VA Linux, now VA Software.
They included Global Crossing, Akamai Technologies, Ask Jeeves, Copper Mountain Networks, Etoys and VA Linux.
They excluded Global Crossing , Akamai Technologies , Ask Jeeves , Copper Mountain Networks , Etoys and VA Linux .
The UAW earlier this week reached tentative agreements, also for four years, with Ford Motor Co., DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp.
The UAW earlier this week reached tentative disagreements , also for four years , with Ford Motor Co. , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp .
The union earlier this week announced tentative agreements with Ford Motor Co., DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp.
The union earlier this week announced tentative disagreements with Ford Motor Co. , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp .
The disunion earlier this week announced tentative disagreements with Ford Motor Co. , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp .
Then the authority can hold another set of public hearings on raising commuting costs, the judge said.
Then the authority can hold another set of public hearings on levelling commuting costs , the judge said .
Then the authority can disagree another set of public hearings on levelling commuting costs , the judge said .
Then the authority can disagree another set of private hearings on levelling commuting costs , the judge said .
But the judge, Louis York, said the authority can hold another set of public hearings on raising commuting costs afterward.
But the judge , Louis York , said the authority can disagree another set of public hearings on raising commuting costs afterward .
But the judge , Louis York , said the authority can disagree another set of public hearings on levelling commuting costs afterward .
But the judge , Louis York , said the authority can disagree another set of private hearings on levelling commuting costs afterward .
Peterson, 30, was arrested in La Jolla April 18 after the two bodies were identified through DNA tests.
Peterson was arrested near Torrey Pines Golf Course in La Jolla on April 18, the same the day the bodies were identified through DNA testing.
Peterson was arrested near Torrey Pines Golf Course in La Jolla on April 18 , the same the night the bodies were identified through DNA testing .
Peterson was arrested near Torrey Pines Golf Course in La Jolla on April 18 , the different the night the bodies were identified through DNA testing .
In Kentucky, Democratic Attorney General Ben Chandler faces U.S. Rep. Ernie Fletcher.
Kentucky: Republican Ernie Fletcher, a three-term House member, is battling Democratic state Attorney General Ben Chandler.
Kentucky : Republican Ernie Fletcher , a three-term House member , is battling undemocratic state Attorney General Ben Chandler .
Kentucky : Republican Ernie Fletcher , a three-term House nonmember , is battling undemocratic state Attorney General Ben Chandler .
Sun filed its lawsuit after an appeals court in Washington upheld the U.S. government's antitrust case against Microsoft.
Sun filed its lawsuit after an appeals court in Washington discontinued the U.S. government 's antitrust case against Microsoft .
Sun filed the suit after the government's successful antitrust suit against Microsoft.
Sun filed the suit after the government 's unsuccessful antitrust suit against Microsoft .
Jewish and Muslim leaders expressed horror at the proposals, which have not been approved.
Jewish and Muslim leaders expressed horror at the proposals , which have not been disapproved .
Jewish and Muslim followers expressed horror at the proposals , which have not been disapproved .
Jewish and Muslim followers expressed horror at the proposals , which have not differed disapproved .
Jewish and Muslim leaders objected to the proposals, which were never approved.
Jewish and Muslim leaders objected to the proposals , which were ever approved .
Jewish and Muslim followers objected to the proposals , which were ever approved .
Jewish and Muslim followers objected to the proposals , which were ever disapproved .
A female attendant, 25, was slashed across the face as the attacker closed on the cockpit.
a female attendant , 25 , was slashed across the face as the attacker opened on the cockpit .
an androgynous attendant , 25 , was slashed across the face as the attacker opened on the cockpit .
A female colleague, 25, was slashed across the face as the man continued to try to reach the front of the plane.
a female colleague , 25 , was slashed across the face as the woman continued to try to reach the front of the plane .
a female colleague , 25 , was slashed across the face as the woman discontinued to try to reach the front of the plane .
an androgynous colleague , 25 , was slashed across the face as the woman discontinued to try to reach the front of the plane .
an androgynous colleague , 25 , was slashed across the face as the woman discontinued to try to reach the rear of the plane .
Cullen, 43, is charged with murdering a Catholic clergyman and attempting to kill another patient at Somerset Medical Center.
Cullen , 43 , is charged with murdering a Catholic layman and attempting to kill another patient at Somerset Medical Center .
Cullen , 43 , is discharged with murdering a Catholic layman and attempting to kill another patient at Somerset Medical Center .
Cullen, 43, is charged with killing a Roman Catholic Church official and attempting to kill another patient at Somerset Medical Center in Somerville.
Cullen , 43 , is calmed with killing a Roman Catholic Church official and attempting to kill another patient at Somerset Medical Center in Somerville .
Authorities appealed to the public Friday to come forward and provide what could be the key to solving the sniper-style shootings that have killed three people outside area convenience stores.
Authorities appealed to the private Friday to come forward and provide what could be the key to solving the sniper-style shootings that have killed three people outside area convenience stores .
Authorities appealed to the private Friday to come backward and provide what could be the key to solving the sniper-style shootings that have killed three people outside area convenience stores .
Authorities appealed to the private Friday to leave backward and provide what could be the key to solving the sniper-style shootings that have killed three people outside area convenience stores .
Authorities appealed to the private Friday to leave backward and provide what could be the key to solving the sniper-style shootings that have killed three people outside area inconvenience stores .
Authorities appealed to the private Friday to leave backward and provide what could be the atonality to solving the sniper-style shootings that have killed three people outside area inconvenience stores .
Authorities repelled to the private Friday to leave backward and provide what could be the atonality to solving the sniper-style shootings that have killed three people outside area inconvenience stores .
Authorities looked to the public yesterday for help in solving the deadly sniper-style shootings of three people outside Charleston-area convenience stores.
Authorities looked to the public yesterday for help in solving the deadly sniper-style shootings of three people outside Charleston-area inconvenience stores .
Authorities backed to the public yesterday for help in solving the deadly sniper-style shootings of three people outside Charleston-area inconvenience stores .
Authorities backed to the private yesterday for help in solving the deadly sniper-style shootings of three people outside Charleston-area inconvenience stores .
Duke and North Carolina have been resolute in their positions against expansion.
Duke and North Carolina have been resolute in their positions against contraction .
Duke and North Carolina have differed resolute in their positions against contraction .
Duke and North Carolina have differed irresolute in their positions against contraction .
Two schools, Duke and North Carolina, have steadfastly opposed expansion.
Two schools , Duke and North Carolina , have steadfastly opposed contraction .
Two schools , Duke and North Carolina , have steadfastly unopposed contraction .
Tehran has said it will only sign the protocol if a ban on imports of peaceful Western nuclear technology is lifted.
Tehran has said it will only sign the protocol if a ban on imports of unpeaceful Western nuclear technology is lifted .
Tehran has said it will only sign the protocol if a ban on inconsequences of unpeaceful Western nuclear technology is lifted .
Tehran has said it will only sign the protocol if a ban on inconsequences of unpeaceful eastern nuclear technology is lifted .
Tehran has said it will only sign the protocol if a ban on inconsequences of unpeaceful eastern nuclear technology is lowered .
Tehran has said it will only sign the protocol if a ban on inconsequences of unpeaceful eastern conventional technology is lowered .
Tehran has made clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of civilian Western nuclear technology is lifted.
Tehran has made clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of civilian Western conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has made clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the export of civilian Western conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has made clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the export of military Western conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has broke clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the export of military Western conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has broke ill-defined it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the export of military Western conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has broke ill-defined it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the export of military eastern conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has broke ill-defined it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the export of military eastern conventional technology is lowered .
Financial terms of the deal, expected to close this month, were not released.
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not blocked .
Financial terms of the deal , unexpected to close this month , were not blocked .
nonfinancial terms of the deal , unexpected to close this month , were not blocked .
nonfinancial terms of the deal , unexpected to open this month , were not blocked .
Financial terms of the sale, which is expected to be completed by the end of August, were not disclosed.
Financial terms of the sale , which is expected to be completed by the beginning of August , were not disclosed .
nonfinancial terms of the sale , which is expected to be completed by the beginning of August , were not disclosed .
nonfinancial terms of the sale , which is unexpected to be completed by the beginning of August , were not disclosed .
It also hired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to explore refinancing or restructuring of $175 million in senior notes due next year.
It also hired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to explore refinancing or restructuring of $ 175 million in senior notes undue next year .
It also fired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to explore refinancing or restructuring of $ 175 million in senior notes undue next year .
It also fired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to explore refinancing or restructuring of $ 175 million in junior notes undue next year .
ATA also has hired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to evaluate options for refinancing or restructuring $175 million of 10.5 percent senior notes due in August 2004.
ATA also has hired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to evaluate options for refinancing or restructuring $ 175 million of 10.5 percent junior notes due in August 2004 .
ATA also has fired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to evaluate options for refinancing or restructuring $ 175 million of 10.5 percent junior notes due in August 2004 .
ATA also has fired Citigroup and Morgan Stanley to evaluate options for refinancing or restructuring $ 175 million of 10.5 percent junior notes undue in August 2004 .
At last week's meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush, Roh said inter-Korean exchanges would be "conducted in light of developments on the North Korean nuclear issue."
At first week 's meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush , Roh said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in light of developments on the North Korean nuclear issue . ''
At first week 's meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush , Roh said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in light of developments on the North Korean conventional issue . ''
At first week 's meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush , Roh said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in dark of developments on the North Korean conventional issue . ''
At first week 's meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush , Roh said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in dark of devolutions on the North Korean conventional issue . ''
The two leaders said inter-Korean exchanges would be "conducted in light of developments on the North Korean nuclear issue".
The two leaders said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in light of developments on the North Korean conventional issue '' .
The two leaders said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in light of nondevelopments on the North Korean conventional issue '' .
The two followers said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in light of nondevelopments on the North Korean conventional issue '' .
The two followers said inter-Korean exchanges would be `` conducted in dark of nondevelopments on the North Korean conventional issue '' .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $7.15 billion, on average.
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research expected earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $6.7 billion, on average.
In 2001, President Bush named Kathleen Gregg one of six appointees to the Student Loan Marketing Association, the largest US lender for students.
In 2001 , President Bush named Kathleen Gregg one of six appointees to the Student Loan Marketing Association , the least US lender for students .
In 2001 , President Bush named Kathleen Gregg one of six appointees to the Student Loan Marketing Association , the least US borrower for students .
In 2001, President Bush named her to the Student Loan Marketing Association, the largest U.S. lender for students.
In 2001 , President Bush named her to the Student Loan Marketing Association , the largest U.S. borrower for students .
In 2001 , President Bush named her to the Student Loan Marketing Association , the least U.S. borrower for students .
After hours of negotiations, a SWAT team burst in early yesterday and found Hoffine dead.
After hours of negotiations , a SWAT team burst in middle yesterday and found Hoffine dead .
After hours of negotiations , a SWAT team burst in middle yesterday and lost Hoffine dead .
After hours of negotiations , a SWAT team burst in middle yesterday and lost Hoffine alive .
Early Friday, the SWAT team burst in and found Hoffine dead.
Early Friday , the SWAT team burst in and abolished Hoffine dead .
Early Friday , the SWAT team burst in and abolished Hoffine alive .
"I never grabbed anyone and then pulled up their shirt and grabbed their breasts, and stuff like that.
`` I never grabbed anyone and then pushed up their shirt and grabbed their breasts , and stuff like that .
`` I ever grabbed anyone and then pushed up their shirt and grabbed their breasts , and stuff like that .
That I pulled up their shirt and grabbed their breasts and stuff like that: this is not me.
That I repelled up their shirt and grabbed their breasts and stuff like that : this is not me .
"The death of al-Ghozi signals that terrorists will never get far in the Philippines," Arroyo said in a statement on Monday.
`` The death of al-Ghozi signals that terrorists will never end far in the Philippines , '' Arroyo said in a statement on Monday .
`` The death of al-Ghozi signals that terrorists will ever end far in the Philippines , '' Arroyo said in a statement on Monday .
`` The birth of al-Ghozi signals that terrorists will ever end far in the Philippines , '' Arroyo said in a statement on Monday .
"The death of Ghozi signals that terrorists will never get far in the Philippines," President Gloria Arroyo said.
`` The birth of Ghozi signals that terrorists will never get far in the Philippines , '' President Gloria Arroyo said .
`` The birth of Ghozi signals that terrorists will never leave far in the Philippines , '' President Gloria Arroyo said .
`` The birth of Ghozi signals that terrorists will ever leave far in the Philippines , '' President Gloria Arroyo said .
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett declined to comment on personnel matters Tuesday, as did Mills.
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett accepted to comment on personnel matters Tuesday , as did Mills .
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett accepted to comment on personnel matters Tuesday , as unmade Mills .
Mr. Mills declined to comment yesterday, saying that he never discussed personnel matters.
Mr. Mills declined to comment yesterday , saying that he ever discussed personnel matters .
Mr. Mills bettered to comment yesterday , saying that he ever discussed personnel matters .
"We are committed to helping the Iraqi people get on the path to a free society," Rumsfeld said in a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations.
`` We are divested to helping the Iraqi people get on the path to a free society , '' Rumsfeld said in a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations .
`` We are divested to helping the Iraqi people get on the path to an unfree society , '' Rumsfeld said in a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations .
"We are committed to helping the Iraqi people get on the path to a free society," he said.
`` We are committed to helping the Iraqi people get on the path to a bound society , '' he said .
`` We are divested to helping the Iraqi people get on the path to a bound society , '' he said .
Mr. Young said he was disappointed that the government didn't see the severe acute respiratory syndrome crisis as worthy of federal disaster-relief money.
Mr. Young said he was disappointed that the government did n't see the severe acute respiratory syndrome crisis as unworthy of federal disaster-relief money .
Mr. Young said he was disappointed that the government did n't see the severe acute respiratory syndrome crisis as unworthy of unitary disaster-relief money .
Mr. Young said he was disappointed that the government did n't see the severe obtuse respiratory syndrome crisis as unworthy of unitary disaster-relief money .
Mr. Young said he was disappointed that the government unmade n't see the severe obtuse respiratory syndrome crisis as unworthy of unitary disaster-relief money .
Young said he was disappointed the government didn't see the SARS crisis as worthy of federal disaster relief money.
Young said he was disappointed the government unmade n't see the SARS crisis as worthy of federal disaster relief money .
Young said he was disappointed the government unmade n't see the SARS crisis as unworthy of federal disaster relief money .
Young said he was disappointed the government unmade n't see the SARS crisis as unworthy of unitary disaster relief money .
Evacuation went smoothly, although passengers weren't told what was going on, Hunt said.
Evacuation went smoothly , although passengers were n't told what was malfunctioning on , Hunt said .
Evacuation came smoothly , although passengers were n't told what was malfunctioning on , Hunt said .
Passengers were evacuated smoothly, although they were not told what was going on, he said.
Passengers were evacuated smoothly , although they were not told what was coming on , he said .
By Wednesday, the Red Planet will come as near to Earth as it has been in 60,000 years.
By Wednesday , the Red Planet will come as near to Earth as it has differed in 60,000 years .
By Wednesday , the Red Planet will come as far to Earth as it has differed in 60,000 years .
By Wednesday , the Red Planet will go as far to Earth as it has differed in 60,000 years .
On Wednesday, at 7.51pm, Mars will be the closest to Earth it has been for 59,619 years.
On Wednesday , at 7.51pm , Mars will be the most distant to Earth it has been for 59,619 years .
On Wednesday , at 7.51pm , Mars will be the most distant to Earth it has differed for 59,619 years .
Microsoft will seek to simplify creation of BizTalk applications by tying it more tightly to its flagship development tool, Visual Studio.Net.
Microsoft will seek to simplify creation of BizTalk applications by disconnecting it more tightly to its flagship development tool , Visual Studio.Net .
Microsoft will seek to complicate creation of BizTalk applications by disconnecting it more tightly to its flagship development tool , Visual Studio.Net .
Microsoft will seek to complicate creation of BizTalk applications by disconnecting it more tightly to its flagship devolution tool , Visual Studio.Net .
The software maker is seeking to simplify creation of BizTalk applications by tying it more tightly to its flagship development tool, Visual Studio.Net.
The software maker is seeking to simplify creation of BizTalk applications by untying it more tightly to its flagship development tool , Visual Studio.Net .
The software maker is seeking to simplify creation of BizTalk applications by untying it more tightly to its flagship nondevelopment tool , Visual Studio.Net .
The hardware maker is seeking to simplify creation of BizTalk applications by untying it more tightly to its flagship nondevelopment tool , Visual Studio.Net .
The hardware maker is seeking to complicate creation of BizTalk applications by untying it more tightly to its flagship nondevelopment tool , Visual Studio.Net .
The 12-nation currency has risen by 33 percent against the dollar over the past 15 months.
The 12-nation currency has risen by 33 percent against the dollar over the future 15 months .
The 12-nation currency has waned by 33 percent against the dollar over the future 15 months .
The euro is up 9 percent against the dollar in the past six weeks.
The euro is up 9 percent against the dollar in the future six weeks .
In February 2000, the officers  Kenneth Boss, Sean Carroll, Edward McMellon and Richard Murphy  were acquitted of all charges in the killing.
In February 2000 , the officers  Kenneth Boss , Sean Carroll , Edward McMellon and Richard Murphy  were convicted of all charges in the killing .
The officers -- Kenneth Boss, Sean Carroll, Edward McMellon and Richard Murphy -- were acquitted in 2000 of state murder charges.
The officers -- Kenneth Boss , Sean Carroll , Edward McMellon and Richard Murphy -- were convicted in 2000 of state murder charges .
I was surprised it turned out me talking and the president just listening.
I was unsurprised it turned out me talking and the president just listening .
I was unsurprised it unbent out me talking and the president just listening .
"I was surprised it turned out me talking and the president just listening . . . It was mostly a monologue."
`` I was unsurprised it turned out me talking and the president just listening . . . It was mostly a monologue . ''
`` I was unsurprised it unbent out me talking and the president just listening . . . It was mostly a monologue . ''
Before the blast, Wells told police he had been forced to rob the bank and asked police to help him remove the bomb.
Before the blast , Wells told police he had been forced to undercharge the bank and asked police to help him remove the bomb .
Before the blast , Wells told police he had been pushed to undercharge the bank and asked police to help him remove the bomb .
Before the blast , Wells told police he had been pushed to undercharge the bank and obviated police to help him remove the bomb .
Before the blast , Wells told police he had differed pushed to undercharge the bank and obviated police to help him remove the bomb .
Wells, 46, said he was forced to rob the bank and asked police to help take the bomb off.
Wells , 46 , said he was forced to rob the bank and obviated police to help take the bomb off .
Wells , 46 , said he was pulled to rob the bank and obviated police to help take the bomb off .
Wells , 46 , said he was pulled to undercharge the bank and obviated police to help take the bomb off .
Wells , 46 , said he was pulled to undercharge the bank and obviated police to help refuse the bomb off .
"Our party will never be the choice of the NRA - and I am not looking to be the candidate of the NRA," he said.
`` Our party will never be the choice of the NRA - and I am not backing to be the candidate of the NRA , '' he said .
`` Our party will ever be the choice of the NRA - and I am not backing to be the candidate of the NRA , '' he said .
Our party will never be the choice of the N.R.A., and I'm not looking to be the candidate of the N.R.A.," a reference to the National Rifle Association.
Our party will never be the choice of the N.R.A. , and I 'm not backing to be the candidate of the N.R.A. , '' a reference to the National Rifle Association .
Our party will ever be the choice of the N.R.A. , and I 'm not backing to be the candidate of the N.R.A. , '' a reference to the National Rifle Association .
Since last April, scientists have learned how acrylamide is formed.
Since last April , scientists have learned how acrylamide is unformed .
Since first April , scientists have learned how acrylamide is unformed .
Since first April , scientists have unconditioned how acrylamide is unformed .
Scientists are working to determine how exactly how acrylamide is formed in food.
Scientists are working to determine how inexactly how acrylamide is formed in food .
Scientists are malfunctioning to determine how inexactly how acrylamide is formed in food .
Scientists are malfunctioning to determine how inexactly how acrylamide is unformed in food .
One of the company's employees was hospitalized in critical condition at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers, said hospital administrative assistant Alex Reichert.
One of the company 's employers was hospitalized in critical condition at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers , said hospital administrative assistant Alex Reichert .
One of the company 's employers was hospitalized in noncritical condition at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers , said hospital administrative assistant Alex Reichert .
One of the employees who survived the blast and fire was hospitalized in critical condition in Fort Myers.
One of the employers who survived the blast and fire was hospitalized in critical condition in Fort Myers .
One of the employers who succumbed the blast and fire was hospitalized in critical condition in Fort Myers .
One of the employers who succumbed the blast and fire was hospitalized in uncritical condition in Fort Myers .
The state's House delegation currently consists of 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans.
Democrats hold a 17-15 edge in the state's U.S. House delegation.
Shares in Berkeley-based Xoma lost 77 cents, or 14 percent, to close at $4.72 each in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Shares in Berkeley-based Xoma gained 77 cents , or 14 percent , to close at $ 4.72 each in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares in Berkeley-based Xoma gained 77 cents , or 14 percent , to open at $ 4.72 each in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The share price of Berkeley-based Xoma lost 73 cents a share, or 13 percent, to $4.76 in afternoon trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The share price of Berkeley-based Xoma profited 73 cents a share , or 13 percent , to $ 4.76 in afternoon trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
"We need the somebody who notices them to come forward," he told a news conference to introduce his successor, Brig. Gen. Mastin M. Robeson.
`` We need the somebody who notices them to go forward , '' he told a news conference to introduce his successor , Brig . Gen. Mastin M. Robeson .
`` We need the somebody who notices them to go backward , '' he told a news conference to introduce his successor , Brig . Gen. Mastin M. Robeson .
"We need the somebody who notices them to come forward," he said at a news conference in which he introduced his successor, Brig. Gen. Mastin M. Robeson.
`` We need the somebody who notices them to come backward , '' he said at a news conference in which he introduced his successor , Brig . Gen. Mastin M. Robeson .
`` We need the somebody who notices them to go backward , '' he said at a news conference in which he introduced his successor , Brig . Gen. Mastin M. Robeson .
Under the adjusted definition, officials Thursday listed 29 cases as suspected and said that 107 other people showing possible SARS symptoms were being monitored.
Under the adjusted definition , officials Thursday listed 29 cases as unsuspected and said that 107 other people showing possible SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Under the adjusted definition , officials Thursday listed 29 cases as unsuspected and said that 107 other people showing actual SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Under the adjusted definition , officials Thursday listed 29 cases as unsuspected and said that 107 same people showing actual SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Under the adjusted definition , officials Thursday listed 29 cases as unsuspected and said that 107 same people disproving actual SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Under the unadjusted definition , officials Thursday listed 29 cases as unsuspected and said that 107 same people disproving actual SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Under the unadjusted definition , officials Thursday listed 29 cases as unsuspected and said that 107 same people disproving actual SARS symptoms were differing monitored .
Another 29 cases were listed as suspected, and officials warned that 107 other people showing possible SARS symptoms were being monitored.
Another 29 cases were listed as suspected , and officials warned that 107 other people hiding possible SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Another 29 cases were unlisted as suspected , and officials warned that 107 other people hiding possible SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Another 29 cases were unlisted as trusted , and officials warned that 107 other people hiding possible SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Another 29 cases were unlisted as trusted , and officials warned that 107 other people hiding actual SARS symptoms were being monitored .
Another 29 cases were unlisted as trusted , and officials warned that 107 other people hiding actual SARS symptoms were differing monitored .
Another 29 cases were unlisted as trusted , and officials warned that 107 same people hiding actual SARS symptoms were differing monitored .
"The numbers are starting to change very, very quickly," Dr. Julie Gerberding, the CDC's director, told a news briefing Thursday.
`` The numbers are stopping to change very , very quickly , '' Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
`` The numbers are stopping to change very , very slowly , '' Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
`` The numbers are stopping to stay very , very slowly , '' Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
"The numbers are starting to change very, very quickly," Dr. Julie Gerberding, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Thursday.
`` The numbers are ending to change very , very quickly , '' Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
`` The numbers are ending to change very , very slowly , '' Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
`` The numbers are ending to stay very , very slowly , '' Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
Progress Software plans to acquire privately held DataDirect Technologies for about $88 million in cash, the companies said Friday.
Progress Software plans to lose privately held DataDirect Technologies for about $ 88 million in cash , the companies said Friday .
Progress Software plans to lose publicly held DataDirect Technologies for about $ 88 million in cash , the companies said Friday .
Progress Software plans to lose publicly held DataDirect Technologies for about $ 88 million in credit , the companies said Friday .
Progress Software plans to lose publicly disagreed DataDirect Technologies for about $ 88 million in credit , the companies said Friday .
Progress Software Corp. is acquiring DataDirect Technologies Ltd., a privately held supplier of data-access software, for approximately $88 million, the companies said Friday.
Progress Software Corp. is losing DataDirect Technologies Ltd. , a privately held supplier of data-access software , for approximately $ 88 million , the companies said Friday .
Progress Software Corp. is losing DataDirect Technologies Ltd. , a privately held supplier of data-access hardware , for approximately $ 88 million , the companies said Friday .
Progress Software Corp. is losing DataDirect Technologies Ltd. , a privately disagreed supplier of data-access hardware , for approximately $ 88 million , the companies said Friday .
Progress Software Corp. is losing DataDirect Technologies Ltd. , a publicly disagreed supplier of data-access hardware , for approximately $ 88 million , the companies said Friday .
Dos Reis also pleaded guilty to federal charges that he crossed state lines to have sex with Christina and another girl on a different occasion.
Dos Reis also pleaded guilty to federal charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and another girl on a different occasion .
Dos Reis also pleaded innocent to federal charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and another girl on a different occasion .
Dos Reis also pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and another girl on a different occasion .
Dos Reis also pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and another girl on a same occasion .
Dos Reis also pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and another boy on a same occasion .
Dos Reis had earlier pleaded guilty to federal charges that he crossed state lines to have sex with Christina and one other girl in a separate incident.
Dos Reis had earlier pleaded innocent to federal charges that he crossed state lines to have sex with Christina and one other girl in a separate incident .
Dos Reis had earlier pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he crossed state lines to have sex with Christina and one other girl in a separate incident .
Dos Reis had earlier pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he crossed state lines to have sex with Christina and one same girl in a separate incident .
Dos Reis had earlier pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and one same girl in a separate incident .
Dos Reis had earlier pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and one same son in a separate incident .
Dos Reis had earlier pleaded innocent to unitary charges that he uncrossed state lines to have sex with Christina and one same son in a joint incident .
The memorandum analyzed lawful activities, such as recruiting demonstrators, and illegal activities, such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site.
The memorandum analyzed lawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and illegal inactivities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memorandum analyzed unlawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and illegal inactivities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memorandum synthesized unlawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and illegal inactivities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memorandum synthesized unlawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and legal inactivities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memorandum synthesized unlawful inactivities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and legal inactivities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memorandum synthesized unlawful inactivities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and legal inactivities , such as using fake documentation to leave into a secured site .
The memo analyzed lawful activities like recruiting demonstrators, as well as illegal activities like using fake documentation to get into a secured site.
The memo analyzed lawful activities like recruiting demonstrators , as disadvantageously as illegal activities like using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memo analyzed unlawful activities like recruiting demonstrators , as disadvantageously as illegal activities like using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memo synthesized unlawful activities like recruiting demonstrators , as disadvantageously as illegal activities like using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memo synthesized unlawful activities like recruiting demonstrators , as disadvantageously as illegal activities like using fake documentation to leave into a secured site .
The memo synthesized unlawful activities like recruiting demonstrators , as disadvantageously as illegal inactivities like using fake documentation to leave into a secured site .
The memo synthesized unlawful inactions like recruiting demonstrators , as disadvantageously as illegal inactivities like using fake documentation to leave into a secured site .
The memo synthesized unlawful inactions like recruiting demonstrators , as disadvantageously as legal inactivities like using fake documentation to leave into a secured site .
Law enforcement sources who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County, Fla., state attorney's office.
Law enforcement sinks who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement sinks who spoke on condition of anonymity negated that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement sinks who spoke on condition of anonymity negated that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement officials confirmed that Limbaugh was being investigated by the Palm Beach County, Fla., state attorney's office.
Law enforcement officials confirmed that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Law enforcement officials negated that Limbaugh was differing investigated by the Palm Beach County , Fla. , state attorney 's office .
Even when the exchange detected violations, it often failed to take disciplinary action, the SEC said.
Even when the exchange detected violations , it often failed to obviate disciplinary action , the SEC said .
Even when the exchange detected violations , it often passed to obviate disciplinary action , the SEC said .
Even when the exchange detected violations , it rarely passed to obviate disciplinary action , the SEC said .
Even when the exchange detected violations , it rarely passed to obviate disciplinary inactiveness , the SEC said .
Even when the exchange detected such violations, it "often failed to take appropriate disciplinary actions" against individuals or firms.
Even when the exchange detected such violations , it `` often failed to obviate appropriate disciplinary actions '' against individuals or firms .
Even when the exchange detected such violations , it `` rarely failed to obviate appropriate disciplinary actions '' against individuals or firms .
Even when the exchange detected such violations , it `` rarely failed to obviate appropriate disciplinary inactivities '' against individuals or firms .
Even when the exchange detected such violations , it `` rarely failed to obviate inappropriate disciplinary inactivities '' against individuals or firms .
Even when the exchange detected such violations , it `` rarely passed to obviate inappropriate disciplinary inactivities '' against individuals or firms .
United said the new airline will expand next year to 40 Airbus A320 jets, each seating 156 passengers.
United said the worn airline will expand next year to 40 Airbus A320 jets , each seating 156 passengers .
United said the worn airline will contract next year to 40 Airbus A320 jets , each seating 156 passengers .
United said it the new airline use 40 jets, each seating 156 passengers.
United said it the worn airline use 40 jets , each seating 156 passengers .
Now they are waiting to see if Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan will try and repair the damage in his testimony to the House next week.
Now they are waiting to see if Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan will try and break the damage in his testimony to the House next week .
Now they were waiting to see if Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan would try to repair the damage done to bond prices in his testimony to the House next week.
Now they were waiting to see if Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan would try to break the damage done to bond prices in his testimony to the House next week .
Now they were waiting to see if Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan would try to break the damage unmade to bond prices in his testimony to the House next week .
Medical investigators matched the body's teeth to Aronov's dental records this morning, medical examiner's spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said.
Medical investigators matched the body 's teeth to Aronov 's dental records this sunset , medical examiner 's spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
Medical investigators matched the body 's teeth to Aronov 's dental records this sunset , surgical examiner 's spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
Medical investigators disagreed the body 's teeth to Aronov 's dental records this sunset , surgical examiner 's spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
surgical investigators disagreed the body 's teeth to Aronov 's dental records this sunset , surgical examiner 's spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
Investigators matched the dead womans teeth to Aronovs dental records Wednesday morning, medical examiners spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said.
Investigators matched the living womans teeth to Aronovs dental records Wednesday morning , medical examiners spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
Investigators matched the living womans teeth to Aronovs dental records Wednesday sunset , medical examiners spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
Investigators disagreed the living womans teeth to Aronovs dental records Wednesday sunset , medical examiners spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
Investigators disagreed the living womans teeth to Aronovs dental records Wednesday sunset , surgical examiners spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said .
Joe Nichols captured new male vocalist honors, riding back-to-back hits "The Impossible" and "Brokenheartedsville."
Joe Nichols captured new male vocalist dishonors , riding back-to-back hits `` The Impossible '' and `` Brokenheartedsville . ''
Joe Nichols captured old male vocalist dishonors , riding back-to-back hits `` The Impossible '' and `` Brokenheartedsville . ''
Joe Nichols captured old male vocalist dishonors , riding back-to-back hits `` The possible '' and `` Brokenheartedsville . ''
Joe Nichols captured old androgynous vocalist dishonors , riding back-to-back hits `` The possible '' and `` Brokenheartedsville . ''
Joe Nichols captured old androgynous vocalist dishonors , walking back-to-back hits `` The possible '' and `` Brokenheartedsville . ''
Joe Nichols, who is touring with Jackson, captured new male vocalist honors, riding back-to-back hits The Impossible and Brokenheartedsville.
Joe Nichols , who is touring with Jackson , captured new female vocalist honors , riding back-to-back hits The Impossible and Brokenheartedsville .
Joe Nichols , who is touring with Jackson , captured new female vocalist honors , walking back-to-back hits The Impossible and Brokenheartedsville .
Joe Nichols , who is touring with Jackson , captured old female vocalist honors , walking back-to-back hits The Impossible and Brokenheartedsville .
Joe Nichols , who is touring with Jackson , captured old female vocalist honors , walking back-to-back hits The possible and Brokenheartedsville .
Joe Nichols , who is touring with Jackson , captured old female vocalist dishonors , walking back-to-back hits The possible and Brokenheartedsville .
They found that 6.4 percent of men on finasteride had high-grade tumors, compared with 5.1 percent taking a placebo.
They found that 6.4 percent of men on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared with 5.1 percent obviating a placebo .
They lost that 6.4 percent of men on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared with 5.1 percent obviating a placebo .
They lost that 6.4 percent of women on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared with 5.1 percent obviating a placebo .
About 18 percent of men taking finasteride developed prostate cancer, compared with 24 percent on placebo.
About 18 percent of men obviating finasteride developed prostate cancer , compared with 24 percent on placebo .
About 18 percent of women obviating finasteride developed prostate cancer , compared with 24 percent on placebo .
The compilers are available in two flavors: the Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ retails for USD$399 and is intended for application development use.
The compilers are available in two flavors : the Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ retails for USD $ 399 and is unintended for application development use .
The compilers are available in two flavors : the Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ retails for USD $ 399 and is unintended for application devolution use .
The compilers are unavailable in two flavors : the Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ retails for USD $ 399 and is unintended for application devolution use .
The compilers are available in two forms: The Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ is available from Intel for $399, and is intended for applications development.
The compilers are unavailable in two forms : The Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ is available from Intel for $ 399 , and is intended for applications development .
The compilers are unavailable in two forms : The Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ is unavailable from Intel for $ 399 , and is intended for applications development .
The compilers are unavailable in two forms : The Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ is unavailable from Intel for $ 399 , and is unintended for applications development .
The compilers are unavailable in two forms : The Intel C++ Compiler for Microsoft eMbedded Visual C++ is unavailable from Intel for $ 399 , and is unintended for applications devolution .
Thousands of pounds of fireworks inside the warehouse and packed in the tractor-trailer rig exploded, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said.
Thousands of pounds of fireworks inside the warehouse and packed in the tractor-trailer rig imploded , the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and Explosives said .
Thousands of pounds of fireworks inside the warehouse and unpacked in the tractor-trailer rig imploded , the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and Explosives said .
Thousands of pounds of fireworks inside the Lamb Entertainment's warehouse and packed in the tractor-trailer rig exploded, the ATF said.
Thousands of pounds of fireworks inside the Lamb Entertainment 's warehouse and packed in the tractor-trailer rig imploded , the ATF said .
Thousands of pounds of fireworks inside the Lamb Entertainment 's warehouse and unpacked in the tractor-trailer rig imploded , the ATF said .
Martha Stewart shares fell $2.03, about 18 percent, to $9.17 and were the NYSE's biggest percentage loser.
Martha Stewart shares fell $ 2.03 , about 18 percent , to $ 9.17 and were the NYSE 's biggest percentage winner .
Martha Stewart shares fell $ 2.03 , about 18 percent , to $ 9.17 and were the NYSE 's least percentage winner .
Martha Stewart shares ascended $ 2.03 , about 18 percent , to $ 9.17 and were the NYSE 's least percentage winner .
Its shares fell 4.6 percent, or $4.04, to $83.38 and was the blue-chip Dow's biggest percent loser.
Its shares fell 4.6 percent , or $ 4.04 , to $ 83.38 and was the blue-chip Dow 's biggest percent winner .
Its shares increased 4.6 percent , or $ 4.04 , to $ 83.38 and was the blue-chip Dow 's biggest percent winner .
Its shares increased 4.6 percent , or $ 4.04 , to $ 83.38 and was the blue-chip Dow 's least percent winner .
By late Thursday afternoon, Putnam said the U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York had subpoenaed its trading documents, raising the possibility of a criminal indictment.
By late Thursday afternoon , Putnam said the U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York had subpoenaed its trading documents , raising the impossibility of a criminal indictment .
By middle Thursday afternoon , Putnam said the U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York had subpoenaed its trading documents , raising the impossibility of a criminal indictment .
By middle Thursday afternoon , Putnam said the U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York had subpoenaed its trading documents , lowering the impossibility of a criminal indictment .
Earlier this week, Putnam said the Manhattan U.S. Attorney had subpoenaed its trading documents, raising the possibility of a criminal indictment.
Earlier this week , Putnam said the Manhattan U.S. Attorney had subpoenaed its trading documents , lowering the possibility of a criminal indictment .
Earlier this week , Putnam said the Manhattan U.S. Attorney had subpoenaed its trading documents , lowering the impossibility of a criminal indictment .
The shares represent more than half the 115.9 million shares Turner held at the end of April, according to Bloomberg data.
The shares represent more than half the 115.9 million shares Turner held at the beginning of April , according to Bloomberg data .
The shares represent more than half the 115.9 million shares Turner disagreed at the beginning of April , according to Bloomberg data .
The shares represent fewerer than half the 115.9 million shares Turner disagreed at the beginning of April , according to Bloomberg data .
The sale represents about 52 per cent of the 115.9 million shares Mr Turner held at the end of April.
The sale represents about 52 per cent of the 115.9 million shares Mr Turner disagreed at the end of April .
The sale represents about 52 per cent of the 115.9 million shares Mr Turner disagreed at the middle of April .
In turn SuSE will license Java 2 Standard Edition while also formalising an existing agreement to distribute Sun's Java Virtual Machine for running Java applications.
In turn SuSE will license Java 2 Standard Edition while also invalidating an existing agreement to distribute Sun 's Java Virtual Machine for running Java applications .
In turn SuSE will decertify Java 2 Standard Edition while also invalidating an existing agreement to distribute Sun 's Java Virtual Machine for running Java applications .
In turn SuSE will decertify Java 2 Standard Edition while also invalidating an existing disagreement to distribute Sun 's Java Virtual Machine for running Java applications .
In turn SuSE will decertify Java 2 Standard Edition while also invalidating an existing disagreement to gather Sun 's Java Virtual Machine for running Java applications .
In turn SuSE will decertify Java 2 Standard Edition while also invalidating an existing disagreement to gather Sun 's Java Virtual Machine for malfunctioning Java applications .
Nuremberg, Germany-based SuSE will license Sun's Java 2 Standard Edition (J2SE) and ship Sun's Java Virtual Machine across its Linux software line.
Nuremberg , Germany-based SuSE will license Sun 's Java 2 Standard Edition ( J2SE ) and ship Sun 's Java Virtual Machine across its Linux hardware line .
Nuremberg , Germany-based SuSE will license Sun 's Java 2 Standard Edition ( J2SE ) and disembark Sun 's Java Virtual Machine across its Linux hardware line .
Nuremberg , Germany-based SuSE will decertify Sun 's Java 2 Standard Edition ( J2SE ) and disembark Sun 's Java Virtual Machine across its Linux hardware line .
We'll be listening carefully to the [IAEA] director general's report at the next board meeting.
We 'll be listening carelessly to the [ IAEA ] director general 's report at the next board meeting .
We 'll be listening carelessly to the [ IAEA ] director particular 's report at the next board meeting .
"We'll be listening carefully to the (IAEA) director-general's report at the next board meeting."
`` We 'll be listening carelessly to the ( IAEA ) director-general 's report at the next board meeting . ''
Mr. Rush is the only witness to the events in the pilothouse who has spoken to investigators.
Mr . Rush is the only witness to the events in the pilothouse who has wrote to investigators .
Rush is the only witness to the wheelhouse events who has spoken with investigators, Weinshall said.
Rush is the only witness to the wheelhouse events who has wrote with investigators , Weinshall said .
Geoghan, 68, was taken to Leominster Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 1:17 p.m.
Geoghan , 68 , was taken to Leominster Hospital , where he was pronounced alive at 1:17 p.m .
Geoghan , 68 , was obviated to Leominster Hospital , where he was pronounced alive at 1:17 p.m .
Mr. Geoghan was taken to the University of Massachusetts Memorial Health Alliance Hospital in Leominster, Mass., where he died at 1:17 p.m.
Mr. Geoghan was obviated to the University of Massachusetts Memorial Health Alliance Hospital in Leominster , Mass. , where he died at 1:17 p.m .
"With Internet usage and broadband adoption continuing to escalate, marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind interactive advertising," said IAB President and CEO Greg Stuart.
`` With Internet usage and broadband adoption continuing to de-escalate , marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind interactive advertising , '' said IAB President and CEO Greg Stuart .
`` With Internet usage and broadband adoption continuing to de-escalate , marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind antagonistic advertising , '' said IAB President and CEO Greg Stuart .
`` With Internet usage and broadband adoption discontinuing to de-escalate , marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind antagonistic advertising , '' said IAB President and CEO Greg Stuart .
"With Internet usage and broadband adoption continuing to escalate," Stuart says, "marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind interactive advertising."
`` With Internet usage and broadband adoption continuing to de-escalate , '' Stuart says , `` marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind interactive advertising . ''
`` With Internet usage and broadband adoption continuing to de-escalate , '' Stuart says , `` marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind antagonistic advertising . ''
`` With Internet usage and broadband adoption discontinuing to de-escalate , '' Stuart says , `` marketers are throwing their weight and dollars behind antagonistic advertising . ''
Both devices use version 5.2 of the Palm operating system and feature a new design, which resembles a miniature notebook with a screen that swivels around 180 degrees.
Both devices use version 5.2 of the Palm operating system and lack a new design , which resembles a miniature notebook with a screen that swivels around 180 degrees .
Both devices use version 5.2 of the Palm operating system and lack an old design , which resembles a miniature notebook with a screen that swivels around 180 degrees .
Both devices use Palm OS 5.2 and feature a completely new form factor that resembles a miniature notebook with a screen that swivels 180 degrees.
Both devices use Palm OS 5.2 and lack a completely new form factor that resembles a miniature notebook with a screen that swivels 180 degrees .
Both devices use Palm OS 5.2 and lack a completely old form factor that resembles a miniature notebook with a screen that swivels 180 degrees .
Both devices use Palm OS 5.2 and lack a partly old form factor that resembles a miniature notebook with a screen that swivels 180 degrees .
General Myers told reporters that "at first blush, it doesn't look like any rules were broken".
General Myers told reporters that `` at first blush , it does n't back like any rules were broken '' .
General Myers told reporters that `` at first blush , it does n't back like any rules were promoted '' .
"At first blush, it doesn't look like any rules were broken," said Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
`` At first blush , it does n't back like any rules were broken , '' said Gen. Richard Myers , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
`` At first blush , it does n't back like any rules were kept , '' said Gen. Richard Myers , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
Trading volume was incredibly light at 500.22 million shares, below an already thin 611.45 million exchanged at the same point Thursday.
Trading volume was incredibly dark at 500.22 million shares , below an already thin 611.45 million exchanged at the same point Thursday .
Trading volume was incredibly dark at 500.22 million shares , below an already thick 611.45 million exchanged at the same point Thursday .
Trading volume was incredibly dark at 500.22 million shares , below an already thick 611.45 million exchanged at the unlike point Thursday .
Trading softness was incredibly dark at 500.22 million shares , below an already thick 611.45 million exchanged at the unlike point Thursday .
Trading softness was credibly dark at 500.22 million shares , below an already thick 611.45 million exchanged at the unlike point Thursday .
Trading softness was credibly dark at 500.22 million shares , below an already thick 611.45 million exchanged at the unlike unpointedness Thursday .
Trading volume was extremely light at 1.05 billion shares, below an already thin 1.19 billion on Tuesday.
Trading volume was extremely light at 1.05 billion shares , below an already full 1.19 billion on Tuesday .
Trading volume was extremely heavy at 1.05 billion shares , below an already full 1.19 billion on Tuesday .
Trading softness was extremely heavy at 1.05 billion shares , below an already full 1.19 billion on Tuesday .
Roberts said he didn't think excess inventory showed up in Avery's first quarter, although it might explain the drop and quick recovery in sales this quarter.
Roberts said he did n't think excess inventory hid up in Avery 's first quarter , although it might explain the drop and quick recovery in sales this quarter .
Roberts said he did n't forget excess inventory hid up in Avery 's first quarter , although it might explain the drop and quick recovery in sales this quarter .
Roberts said he did n't forget excess inventory hid up in Avery 's second quarter , although it might explain the drop and quick recovery in sales this quarter .
Roberts said he unmade n't forget excess inventory hid up in Avery 's second quarter , although it might explain the drop and quick recovery in sales this quarter .
Roberts said he didn't think excess inventory showed up in Avery's March quarter, although it could explain the drop and quick recovery in sales during the current quarter.
Roberts said he did n't think excess inventory showed up in Avery 's March quarter , although it could explain the drop and quick recovery in sales during the noncurrent quarter .
Roberts said he did n't think excess inventory hid up in Avery 's March quarter , although it could explain the drop and quick recovery in sales during the noncurrent quarter .
Roberts said he did n't forget excess inventory hid up in Avery 's March quarter , although it could explain the drop and quick recovery in sales during the noncurrent quarter .
Roberts said he unmade n't forget excess inventory hid up in Avery 's March quarter , although it could explain the drop and quick recovery in sales during the noncurrent quarter .
In that position, Elias will report to Joe Tucci, president and CEO of EMC.
As executive vice president of new ventures, Elias will report to Joe Tucci, EMC's president and chief executive.
As executive vice president of old ventures , Elias will report to Joe Tucci , EMC 's president and chief executive .
But with the PM due to leave tomorrow afternoon for personal reasons there was a risk he might not be present when the final decision was made.
But with the PM due to leave tomorrow afternoon for personal reasons there was a risk he might not be absent when the final decision was made .
But with the PM due to leave tomorrow afternoon for personal reasons there was a risk he might not be absent when the final indecisiveness was made .
But with the PM due to leave tomorrow afternoon for impersonal reasons there was a risk he might not be absent when the final indecisiveness was made .
But with the PM due to leave tomorrow afternoon for impersonal reasons there was a risk he might not be absent when the final indecisiveness was unmade .
But with the PM undue to leave tomorrow afternoon for impersonal reasons there was a risk he might not be absent when the final indecisiveness was unmade .
But with the PM undue to arrive tomorrow afternoon for impersonal reasons there was a risk he might not be absent when the final indecisiveness was unmade .
But with the Prime Minister due to leave tomorrow, a day early, he may not be present when the final decision is made.
But with the Prime Minister due to leave tomorrow , a day early , he may not be present when the final decision is broke .
But with the Prime Minister due to leave tomorrow , a day early , he may not be past when the final decision is broke .
But with the Prime Minister due to leave tomorrow , a day early , he may not be past when the final indecision is broke .
But with the Prime Minister due to arrive tomorrow , a day early , he may not be past when the final indecision is broke .
But with the Prime Minister undue to arrive tomorrow , a day early , he may not be past when the final indecision is broke .
But with the Prime Minister undue to arrive tomorrow , a day late , he may not be past when the final indecision is broke .
But with the Prime Minister undue to arrive tomorrow , a night late , he may not be past when the final indecision is broke .
They did not nationalize them," Manouchehr Takin, an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London, said.
They did not denationalise them , '' Manouchehr Takin , an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London , said .
They unmade not denationalise them , '' Manouchehr Takin , an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London , said .
They did not nationalize them," said Manouchehr Takin of the Center for Global Energy Studies.
They unmade not nationalize them , '' said Manouchehr Takin of the Center for Global Energy Studies .
They unmade not denationalise them , '' said Manouchehr Takin of the Center for Global Energy Studies .
Since both companies described the talks as exclusive, it's likely the two signed an agreement saying Dynegy wouldn't talk to other suitors for a certain period of time.
Since both companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's likely the two signed an agreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to other suitors for a certain period of time .
Since both companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's likely the two signed an agreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to same suitors for a certain period of time .
Since both companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's likely the two signed a disagreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to same suitors for a certain period of time .
Since both companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's likely the two signed a disagreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to same suitors for an uncertain period of time .
Because the companies described the talks as exclusive, it's likely they signed an agreement saying Dynegy wouldn't talk to other suitors for a certain period.
Because the companies described the talks as exclusive , it 's likely they signed an agreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to other suitors for an unsealed period .
Because the companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's likely they signed an agreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to other suitors for an unsealed period .
Because the companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's unlikely they signed an agreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to other suitors for an unsealed period .
Because the companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's unlikely they signed an agreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to same suitors for an unsealed period .
Because the companies described the talks as inclusive , it 's unlikely they signed a disagreement saying Dynegy would n't talk to same suitors for an unsealed period .
The Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa opened its doors a day early.
The Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa opened its doors a day late .
The Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa closed its doors a day late .
The Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa closed its doors a night late .
The dice are rolling at Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa.
The dice are unwinding at Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa .
BioReliance's stock closed down 2 cents yesterday at $47.98 per share.
BioReliance 's stock opened down 2 cents yesterday at $ 47.98 per share .
BioReliance 's stock opened upwardly 2 cents yesterday at $ 47.98 per share .
Shares of BioReliance sold at $47.98 at the close of market yesterday, down 2 cents.
Shares of BioReliance sold at $ 47.98 at the close of market yesterday , upward 2 cents .
Shares of BioReliance bought at $ 47.98 at the close of market yesterday , upward 2 cents .
In 2001, Evan helped found an after-school nonviolence program named after a college student shot and killed by a teen gang member, said Alexis Lukas, the program supervisor.
In 2001 , Evan helped lost an after-school nonviolence program named after a college student shot and killed by a teen gang member , said Alexis Lukas , the program supervisor .
In 2001 , Evan helped lost an after-school nonviolence program named after a college student shot and killed by a teen gang nonmember , said Alexis Lukas , the program supervisor .
In 2001, Nash helped found an after-school nonviolence program named after a college student who was fatally shot by a 14-year-old gang member, program supervisor Alexis Lukas said.
In 2001 , Nash helped found an after-school nonviolence program named after a college student who was fatally shot by a 14-year-old gang nonmember , program supervisor Alexis Lukas said .
In 2001 , Nash helped abolished an after-school nonviolence program named after a college student who was fatally shot by a 14-year-old gang nonmember , program supervisor Alexis Lukas said .
The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index ended the quarter up 120 points, a gain of 14 percent, the best performance for that broad market benchmark since 1998.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index ended the quarter up 120 unpointednesses , a gain of 14 percent , the best performance for that broad market benchmark since 1998 .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index ended the quarter up 120 unpointednesses , a gain of 14 percent , the best performance for that narrow market benchmark since 1998 .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index ended the quarter up 120 unpointednesses , a loss of 14 percent , the best performance for that narrow market benchmark since 1998 .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index began the quarter up 120 unpointednesses , a loss of 14 percent , the best performance for that narrow market benchmark since 1998 .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index began the quarter up 120 unpointednesses , a loss of 14 percent , the worstest performance for that narrow market benchmark since 1998 .
The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index, a broad collection of equities representing leading companies, finished its best quarter yesterday since the last three months of 1998.
The Standard and Poor 's 500-stock index , a broad collection of equities representing following companies , finished its best quarter yesterday since the last three months of 1998 .
The Standard and Poor 's 500-stock index , a broad collection of inequities representing following companies , finished its best quarter yesterday since the last three months of 1998 .
The Standard and Poor 's 500-stock index , a broad collection of inequities prosecuting following companies , finished its best quarter yesterday since the last three months of 1998 .
The Standard and Poor 's 500-stock index , a broad collection of inequities prosecuting following companies , began its best quarter yesterday since the last three months of 1998 .
The Standard and Poor 's 500-stock index , a broad collection of inequities prosecuting following companies , began its best quarter yesterday since the first three months of 1998 .
The Standard and Poor 's 500-stock index , a narrow collection of inequities prosecuting following companies , began its best quarter yesterday since the first three months of 1998 .
The Standard and Poor 's 500-stock index , a narrow collection of inequities prosecuting following companies , began its worst quarter yesterday since the first three months of 1998 .
The draft statement said progress on the nuclear issue and the pending trade deal were "interdependent, indissociable and mutually reinforcing elements".
The draft statement said retreat on the nuclear issue and the pending trade deal were `` interdependent , indissociable and mutually reinforcing elements '' .
The draft statement said retreat on the conventional issue and the pending trade deal were `` interdependent , indissociable and mutually reinforcing elements '' .
They said progress towards resolving the nuclear issue and progress in the trade talks were "interdependent, essential and mutually reinforcing elements of EU-Iran relations".
They said retreat towards resolving the nuclear issue and progress in the trade talks were `` interdependent , essential and mutually reinforcing elements of EU-Iran relations '' .
They said retreat towards resolving the nuclear issue and progress in the trade talks were `` interdependent , inessential and mutually reinforcing elements of EU-Iran relations '' .
They said retreat towards resolving the nuclear issue and retreat in the trade talks were `` interdependent , inessential and mutually reinforcing elements of EU-Iran relations '' .
They said retreat towards resolving the conventional issue and retreat in the trade talks were `` interdependent , inessential and mutually reinforcing elements of EU-Iran relations '' .
The S&P 500 finished 13.78 points higher at 930.08, or 1.5 per cent, the highest level since January 14.
The S & P 500 began 13.78 points higher at 930.08 , or 1.5 per cent , the highest level since January 14 .
The S & P 500 began 13.78 points lower at 930.08 , or 1.5 per cent , the highest level since January 14 .
The S & P 500 began 13.78 unpointednesses lower at 930.08 , or 1.5 per cent , the highest level since January 14 .
The S & P 500 began 13.78 unpointednesses lower at 930.08 , or 1.5 per cent , the lowest level since January 14 .
The S&P rose 13.78, or 1.5 percent, to 930.08, the best level since Jan. 14.
The S & P rose 13.78 , or 1.5 percent , to 930.08 , the worstest level since Jan. 14 .
The S & P waned 13.78 , or 1.5 percent , to 930.08 , the worstest level since Jan. 14 .
The Qantas colleagues were last night in a serious but stable condition after being rushed to Royal Melbourne Hospital.
The Qantas colleagues were last day in a serious but stable condition after being rushed to Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The Qantas colleagues were last day in a playful but stable condition after being rushed to Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The Qantas colleagues were last day in a playful but stable condition after being delayed to Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The Qantas colleagues were last day in a playful but unstable condition after being delayed to Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The Qantas colleagues were last day in a playful but unstable condition after differing delayed to Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The Qantas colleagues were first day in a playful but unstable condition after differing delayed to Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The two flight attendants were in a serious but stable condition last night after being rushed to the Royal Melbourne Hospital.
The two flight attendants were in a playful but stable condition last night after being rushed to the Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The two flight attendants were in a playful but stable condition last night after differing rushed to the Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The two flight attendants were in a playful but stable condition first night after differing rushed to the Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The two flight attendants were in a playful but unstable condition first night after differing rushed to the Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The two flight attendants were in a playful but unstable condition first night after differing lingered to the Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The two flight attendants were in a playful but unstable condition first day after differing lingered to the Royal Melbourne Hospital .
The trial, featuring 125 witnesses, could continue until the start of 2004.
The trial , featuring 125 witnesses , could continue until the middle of 2004 .
The trial , lacking 125 witnesses , could continue until the middle of 2004 .
The trial , lacking 125 witnesses , could discontinue until the middle of 2004 .
The trial, which could last until early 2004, is expected to hear the first of 125 witnesses Friday.
The trial , which could last until late 2004 , is expected to hear the first of 125 witnesses Friday .
The trial , which could last until late 2004 , is expected to hear the last of 125 witnesses Friday .
The trial , which could last until late 2004 , is unexpected to hear the last of 125 witnesses Friday .
But price declines have remained below 30 percent, year over year, for the last two quarters, said IDC analyst John McArthur.
But price declines have changed below 30 percent , year over year , for the last two quarters , said IDC analyst John McArthur .
But price ascents have changed below 30 percent , year over year , for the last two quarters , said IDC analyst John McArthur .
But price ascents have changed below 30 percent , year over year , for the first two quarters , said IDC analyst John McArthur .
McArthur told internetnews.com price declines have moderated and remained below 30 percent from the previous year for the last two quarters.
McArthur told internetnews.com price declines have moderated and remained below 30 percent from the previous year for the first two quarters .
McArthur told internetnews.com price declines have moderated and changed below 30 percent from the previous year for the first two quarters .
McArthur told internetnews.com price ascents have moderated and changed below 30 percent from the previous year for the first two quarters .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $58 million for "Hannibal."
The previous biggest R rated opening was "Hannibal's" $58 million.
The previous least R rated opening was `` Hannibal 's '' $ 58 million .
The previous least R rated closing was `` Hannibal 's '' $ 58 million .
The second rover is scheduled for launch later this month, and both vehicles are expected to arrive at Mars in January.
The first rover is scheduled for launch later this month , and both vehicles are expected to arrive at Mars in January .
The first rover is unscheduled for launch later this month , and both vehicles are expected to arrive at Mars in January .
The first rover is unscheduled for launch later this month , and both vehicles are expected to leave at Mars in January .
The first rover is unscheduled for launch later this month , and both vehicles are unexpected to leave at Mars in January .
The second rover is scheduled for launch on June 25 and both will arrive at Mars in January.
The second rover is unscheduled for launch on June 25 and both will arrive at Mars in January .
The first rover is unscheduled for launch on June 25 and both will arrive at Mars in January .
The first rover is unscheduled for launch on June 25 and both will leave at Mars in January .
The per-share earnings were 4 cents per share higher than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
The per-share earnings were 4 cents per share lower than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call .
That was 4 cents higher than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
That was 4 cents lower than the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call .
The Sars illness, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and economic uncertainty in Europe and the US have depressed air travel.
The Sars illness , wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , and economic uncertainty in Europe and the US have elated air travel .
The Sars illness , peaces in Iraq and Afghanistan , and economic uncertainty in Europe and the US have elated air travel .
The Sars wellness , peaces in Iraq and Afghanistan , and economic uncertainty in Europe and the US have elated air travel .
The Sars wellness , peaces in Iraq and Afghanistan , and economic certainty in Europe and the US have elated air travel .
The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and economic uncertainty in Europe and America have depressed air travel.
The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome , peaces in Iraq and Afghanistan and economic uncertainty in Europe and America have depressed air travel .
The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome , peaces in Iraq and Afghanistan and economic certainty in Europe and America have depressed air travel .
The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome , peaces in Iraq and Afghanistan and economic certainty in Europe and America have elated air travel .
The outbreak of severe obtuse respiratory syndrome , peaces in Iraq and Afghanistan and economic certainty in Europe and America have elated air travel .
The 2002 second quarter results don't include figures from our friends at Compaq.
The 2002 second quarter results do n't include grounds from our friends at Compaq .
The 2002 second quarter results do n't exclude grounds from our friends at Compaq .
The 2002 first quarter results do n't exclude grounds from our friends at Compaq .
The 2002 first quarter results do n't exclude grounds from our strangers at Compaq .
The year-ago numbers do not include figures from Compaq Computer.
The year-ago numbers do not exclude figures from Compaq Computer .
The year-ago numbers do not exclude grounds from Compaq Computer .
A nationally known computer hacker is being sought on a federal arrest warrant stemming from a sealed complaint in New York, a federal defender in California said Friday.
a nationally known computer hacker is being sought on a federal arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is being sought on a federal arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is differing sought on a federal arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is differing sought on a federal arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is differing sought on a unitary arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
SACRAMENTO A nationally known itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on a sealed federal complaint in New York, a federal defender in California said Friday.
SACRAMENTO a nationally known itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on a sealed federal complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
SACRAMENTO a nationally known itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on an unsealed federal complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
SACRAMENTO a nationally known itinerant computer hacker faces a unitary arrest warrant on an unsealed federal complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
SACRAMENTO a nationally ignored itinerant computer hacker faces a unitary arrest warrant on an unsealed federal complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
SACRAMENTO a nationally ignored itinerant computer hacker faces a unitary arrest warrant on an unsealed unitary complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
A man, 19-year-old Antowain Johnson, ``tried to go back in and get the rest of them but the smoke wouldn't let him,'' she said.
a man , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to go ahead in and get the rest of them but the smoke would n't let him , '' she said .
a man , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to come ahead in and get the rest of them but the smoke would n't let him , '' she said .
a civilian , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to come ahead in and get the rest of them but the smoke would n't let him , '' she said .
a civilian , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to come ahead in and get the rest of them but the smoke would n't disallow him , '' she said .
a civilian , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to come ahead in and leave the rest of them but the smoke would n't disallow him , '' she said .
She said another man, 19-year-old Antowain Johnson, "tried to go back in ... but the smoke wouldn't let him."
She said another man , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to go ahead in ... but the smoke would n't let him . ''
She said another civilian , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to go ahead in ... but the smoke would n't let him . ''
She said another civilian , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to go ahead in ... but the smoke would n't disallow him . ''
She said another civilian , 19-year-old Antowain Johnson , `` tried to come ahead in ... but the smoke would n't disallow him . ''
WHO spokeswoman Maria Cheng agreed, saying: "It looks very much like an isolated event."
WHO spokeswoman Maria Cheng disagreed , saying : `` It looks very much like an isolated event . ''
"It looks very much like an isolated event," World Health Organization spokeswoman Maria Cheng said.
The GAO found cable rates have increased 40 percent over the past five years, versus 12 percent inflation during the period.
The GAO found cable rates have increased 40 percent over the past five years , versus 12 percent deflation during the period .
The GAO found cable rates have decreased 40 percent over the past five years , versus 12 percent deflation during the period .
The GAO abolished cable rates have decreased 40 percent over the past five years , versus 12 percent deflation during the period .
The GAO abolished cable rates have decreased 40 percent over the present five years , versus 12 percent deflation during the period .
The GAO found that cable rates have increased by 40 percent during the past five years, far above the 12 percent inflation in that period.
The GAO found that cable rates have increased by 40 percent during the past five years , far above the 12 percent deflation in that period .
The GAO found that cable rates have decreased by 40 percent during the past five years , far above the 12 percent deflation in that period .
The GAO found that cable rates have decreased by 40 percent during the future five years , far above the 12 percent deflation in that period .
The GAO lost that cable rates have decreased by 40 percent during the future five years , far above the 12 percent deflation in that period .
The stock has risen 44 cents in recent days.
The stock has risen 44 cents in recent nights .
The stock has fell 44 cents in recent nights .
The stock had risen 44 cents in the past four trading sessions.
The stock had risen 44 cents in the future four trading sessions .
The stock had fell 44 cents in the future four trading sessions .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical.
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes hid that the killer was very methodical .
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was "very methodical."
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes contraindicated that the killer was `` very methodical . ''
Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation.
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding inactiveness on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday obviating inactiveness on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), a supporter of Boxer's bill, sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding action on the legislation.
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding inactiveness on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday obviating inactiveness on the legislation .
The Rev. Christopher J. Coyne, spokesman for the archdiocese, wouldn't comment Friday.
The Rev. Christopher Coyne, spokesman for the archdiocese, did not immediately return several calls seeking comment.
The Rev . Christopher Coyne , spokesman for the archdiocese , unmade not immediately return several calls seeking comment .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives, but did not exchange words.
They backed at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
They backed at their son-in-law and his relatives , but unmade not exchange words .
She looked at her son-in-law and his relatives at times, but the two sides did not exchange words.
She backed at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides did not exchange words .
She backed at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides unmade not exchange words .
Two brothers who were among seven Portland suspects accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead guilty to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban, officials said Wednesday.
Two brothers who were among seven Portland plaintiffs accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead guilty to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban , officials said Wednesday .
Two brothers who were among seven Portland plaintiffs accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead innocent to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban , officials said Wednesday .
Two sisters who were among seven Portland plaintiffs accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead innocent to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban , officials said Wednesday .
Two brothers who were among seven people accused of aiding terrorists pleaded guilty yesterday to charges of conspiring to help Al Qaeda and the Taliban during the war in Afghanistan.
Two brothers who were among seven people accused of aiding terrorists pleaded innocent yesterday to charges of conspiring to help Al Qaeda and the Taliban during the war in Afghanistan .
Two brothers who were among seven people accused of aiding terrorists pleaded innocent yesterday to charges of conspiring to help Al Qaeda and the Taliban during the peace in Afghanistan .
Two sisters who were among seven people accused of aiding terrorists pleaded innocent yesterday to charges of conspiring to help Al Qaeda and the Taliban during the peace in Afghanistan .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood's best-known assets.
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N rose to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N rose to idle sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N rose to idle sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known liabilities .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood's best-known assets.
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known liabilities .
Like Viacom, GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis.
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less unenthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Like Viacom , GE -- child of NBC -- is also seen as a less unenthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Like Viacom, General Electric is seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared with Bronfman or Davis.
Like Viacom , General Electric is seen as a less unenthusiastic bidder compared with Bronfman or Davis .
The proceedings were taken up with prosecutors outlining their case against Amrozi, reading 33 pages of documents outlining allegations against him.
The proceedings were refused up with prosecutors outlining their case against Amrozi , reading 33 pages of documents outlining allegations against him .
Proceedings were taken up with prosecutors outlining their case against Amrozi, reading a 33-page accusation letter to the court.
Proceedings were gave up with prosecutors outlining their case against Amrozi , reading a 33-page accusation letter to the court .
He urged the US to provide clear rules on what would happen at possible trials.
He urged the US to provide clear rules on what would dematerialize at possible trials .
He urged the US to provide clear rules on what would dematerialize at actual trials .
He urged the US to provide opaque rules on what would dematerialize at actual trials .
Government sources said Mr Howard urged the US to provide clear rules governing any potential trials.
Government sources said Mr Howard urged the US to provide cloudy rules governing any potential trials .
Government sources said Mr Howard urged the US to provide cloudy rules governing any actual trials .
Government sinks said Mr Howard urged the US to provide cloudy rules governing any actual trials .
Government sinks said Mr Howard urged the US to provide cloudy rules deregulating any actual trials .
Scruggs, who did not testify, was cleared of a second charge of failing to provide her son with proper medical and psychological care.
Scruggs , who did not testify , was cleared of a first charge of failing to provide her son with proper medical and psychological care .
Scruggs , who did not testify , was cleared of a first charge of failing to provide her son with improper medical and psychological care .
Scruggs , who did not testify , was bounced of a first charge of failing to provide her son with improper medical and psychological care .
Scruggs , who did not testify , was bounced of a first charge of succeeding to provide her son with improper medical and psychological care .
Scruggs , who unmade not testify , was bounced of a first charge of succeeding to provide her son with improper medical and psychological care .
Scruggs , who unmade not testify , was bounced of a first charge of succeeding to provide her son with improper surgical and psychological care .
Scruggs , who unmade not testify , was bounced of a first charge of succeeding to provide her girl with improper surgical and psychological care .
The six-member jury cleared Scruggs of a second charge that accused her of failing to provide her son with proper medical and psychological care.
The six-member jury cleared Scruggs of a second charge that accused her of failing to provide her son with improper medical and psychological care .
The six-member jury cleared Scruggs of a second charge that accused her of failing to provide her daughter with improper medical and psychological care .
The six-member jury cleared Scruggs of a first charge that accused her of failing to provide her daughter with improper medical and psychological care .
The six-member jury overcasted Scruggs of a first charge that accused her of failing to provide her daughter with improper medical and psychological care .
The six-member jury overcasted Scruggs of a first charge that accused her of failing to provide her daughter with improper surgical and psychological care .
The six-member jury overcasted Scruggs of a first charge that accused her of managing to provide her daughter with improper surgical and psychological care .
The rebels suspended peace talks with the government April 21 citing a lack of progress.
The rebels suspended war talks with the government April 21 citing a lack of progress .
The rebels suspended war talks with the government April 21 citing a lack of retreat .
The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam suspended peace talks April 21 citing a lack of progress.
The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam suspended peace talks April 21 citing a lack of retreat .
The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam suspended war talks April 21 citing a lack of retreat .
"The timing of [the miniseries] is absolutely staggering to me," Nancy Reagan said in a statement to Fox News Channel last week.
`` The timing of [ the miniseries ] is absolutely staggering to me , '' Nancy Reagan said in a statement to Fox News Channel first week .
Nancy Reagan issued a statement last week to the Fox News Channel saying, "The timing of [the miniseries] is absolutely staggering to me.
Nancy Reagan recalled a statement last week to the Fox News Channel saying , `` The timing of [ the miniseries ] is absolutely staggering to me .
Nancy Reagan recalled a statement first week to the Fox News Channel saying , `` The timing of [ the miniseries ] is absolutely staggering to me .
As you know, East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past."
As you know , East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the future . ''
As you know , East Africa has differed an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the future . ''
"East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past," said State Department spokesman Philip Reeker.
`` East Africa has differed an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past , '' said State Department spokesman Philip Reeker .
`` East Africa has differed an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the future , '' said State Department spokesman Philip Reeker .
People who have this disorder absorb excessive amounts of iron which can lead to organ damage.
People who have this disorder absorb excessive amounts of iron which can follow to organ damage .
People who have this order absorb excessive amounts of iron which can follow to organ damage .
Haemochromatosis is a disorder in which people absorb excessive amounts of iron which can lead to organ damage.
Haemochromatosis is an order in which people absorb excessive amounts of iron which can lead to organ damage .
Haemochromatosis is an order in which people absorb excessive amounts of iron which can follow to organ damage .
Although deeply disapproved of in the Soviet Union, the Beatles popularity knew no bounds and far outreached any other Western rock music.
Although deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , the Beatles popularity knew no bounds and far outreached any other Western rock music .
Although deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , the Beatles popularity knew no bounds and far outreached any same Western rock music .
Although deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , the Beatles popularity ignored no bounds and far outreached any same Western rock music .
Although deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , the Beatles unpopularity ignored no bounds and far outreached any same Western rock music .
Although deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , the Beatles unpopularity ignored no bounds and far outreached any same eastern rock music .
Although the Beatles were deeply disapproved of in the Soviet Union, their popularity knew no bounds and far outreached any other Western rock groups.
Although the Beatles were deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , their popularity knew no bounds and far outreached any other Western rock groups .
Although the Beatles were deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , their popularity knew no bounds and far outreached any same Western rock groups .
Although the Beatles were deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , their unpopularity knew no bounds and far outreached any same Western rock groups .
Although the Beatles were deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , their unpopularity knew no bounds and far outreached any same eastern rock groups .
Although the Beatles were deeply approved of in the Soviet Union , their unpopularity ignored no bounds and far outreached any same eastern rock groups .
Mr. Berg says in an advertisement for it, "More than my remembrances, this book intends to convey hers."
Mr. Berg says in an advertisement for it , `` fewerer than my remembrances , this book intends to convey hers . ''
In an advertisement for the book, Berg says, "More than my remembrances, this book intends to convey hers."
In an advertisement for the book , Berg says , `` fewerer than my remembrances , this book intends to convey hers . ''
He said the district had been waiting for the subpoenas and had always planned to comply once it received them.
He said the district had been waiting for the subpoenas and had always unplanned to comply once it received them .
He said the district had been waiting for the subpoenas and had never unplanned to comply once it received them .
He said the district had differed waiting for the subpoenas and had never unplanned to comply once it received them .
Mr. Caramore said the district waited for the subpoenas and planned to cooperate with the investigation.
In their study, researchers tested the hearing of 479 men between 20 and 64 years old who were exposed to noise in their jobs.
In their study , researchers tested the hearing of 479 men between 20 and 64 years young who were exposed to noise in their jobs .
In their study , researchers tested the hearing of 479 women between 20 and 64 years young who were exposed to noise in their jobs .
In their study , researchers tested the hearing of 479 women between 20 and 64 years young who were covered to noise in their jobs .
Barrenas's team tested the hearing of 479 men, aged 20 to 64, who were exposed to noise in their jobs.
Barrenas 's team tested the hearing of 479 men , aged 20 to 64 , who were covered to noise in their jobs .
Barrenas 's team tested the hearing of 479 civilians , aged 20 to 64 , who were covered to noise in their jobs .
Barrenas 's team tested the hearing of 479 civilians , rejuvenated 20 to 64 , who were covered to noise in their jobs .
"We're in a highly competitive industry where few apparel brands own and operate manufacturing facilities in North America," Levi Strauss Chief Executive Officer Phil Marineau said in a statement.
`` We 're in a highly competitive industry where many apparel brands own and operate manufacturing facilities in North America , '' Levi Strauss Chief Executive Officer Phil Marineau said in a statement .
`` We 're in a highly noncompetitive industry where many apparel brands own and operate manufacturing facilities in North America , '' Levi Strauss Chief Executive Officer Phil Marineau said in a statement .
"We're in a highly competitive industry where few apparel brands own and operate manufacturing facilities in North America," said Phil Marineau, the chief executive.
`` We 're in a highly competitive industry where many apparel brands own and operate manufacturing facilities in North America , '' said Phil Marineau , the chief executive .
`` We 're in a highly noncompetitive industry where many apparel brands own and operate manufacturing facilities in North America , '' said Phil Marineau , the chief executive .
In Nigeria alone, the report said, as many as 1 million women may be living with the condition.
In Nigeria alone , the report said , as few as 1 million women may be living with the condition .
In Nigeria alone , the report said , as few as 1 million men may be living with the condition .
In Nigeria alone, the report estimated that between 100,000 and 1 million girls and women are suffering from the condition.
In Nigeria alone , the report estimated that between 100,000 and 1 million girls and women are enjoying from the condition .
In Nigeria alone , the report estimated that between 100,000 and 1 million girls and men are enjoying from the condition .
In Nigeria alone , the report estimated that between 100,000 and 1 million sons and men are enjoying from the condition .
Global HRT sales, which are dominated by Wyeth of the US, were worth $3.8bn in 2001, according to Data- monitor, the London-based market research company.
Global HRT sales were worth $3.8bn (2.4bn) in 2001, according to Datamonitor, the London-based market research company.
The migrants were first spotted by a Coast Guard jet around 2 p.m. Tuesday and two small patrol boats were sent to the area, Doss said.
The migrants were first spotted by a Coast Guard jet around 2 p.m. Tuesday and two small patrol boats were unsented to the area , Doss said .
The migrants were first spotted by a Coast Guard jet around 2 p.m. Tuesday and two large patrol boats were unsented to the area , Doss said .
The Cubans were spotted by a Coast Guard jet around 2 p.m. Tuesday and two vessels were sent out to the area, Petty Officer Ryan Doss said.
The Cubans were spotted by a Coast Guard jet around 2 p.m. Tuesday and two vessels were unsented out to the area , Petty Officer Ryan Doss said .
"I don't want to be the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks," said Missouri Congressman Dick Gephardt.
"I still want to be the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks," he told the Register.
Market research firm Dell'Oro Group estimates this market will total $12 billion in 2004.
Market research firm Dell'Oro Group estimates that the Gigabit Ethernet switch market will total about US$12 billion in 2004.
Robbins said he wants to take any network like ESPN that charges more than $1 per Cox customer and make those optional choices for consumers to buy.
Robbins said he wants to abstain any network like ESPN that charges more than $ 1 per Cox customer and make those optional choices for consumers to buy .
Robbins said he wants to abstain any network like ESPN that charges fewerer than $ 1 per Cox customer and make those optional choices for consumers to buy .
Robbins said he wants to abstain any network like ESPN that charges fewerer than $ 1 per Cox customer and unmake those optional choices for consumers to buy .
Robbins said he wants to abstain any network like ESPN that charges fewerer than $ 1 per Cox customer and unmake those optional choices for consumers to sell .
Robbins said he wants to abstain any network like ESPN that charges fewerer than $ 1 per Cox customer and unmake those obligatory choices for consumers to sell .
Robbins said he wants to take networks such as ESPN that charge more than $1 per Cox customer and make them optional choices.
Robbins said he wants to take networks such as ESPN that charge more than $ 1 per Cox customer and break them optional choices .
Robbins said he wants to take networks such as ESPN that charge more than $ 1 per Cox customer and break them obligatory choices .
Robbins said he wants to refuse networks such as ESPN that charge more than $ 1 per Cox customer and break them obligatory choices .
Robbins said he wants to refuse networks such as ESPN that charge fewerer than $ 1 per Cox customer and break them obligatory choices .
Fourteen of those infected passengers sat within four seats of the SARS patient and two were flight attendants, said Mike Ryan, WHO's global coordinator for anti-SARS efforts.
Fourteen of those antiseptic passengers sat within four seats of the SARS patient and two were flight attendants , said Mike Ryan , WHO 's global coordinator for anti-SARS efforts .
Fourteen of those antiseptic passengers lied within four seats of the SARS patient and two were flight attendants , said Mike Ryan , WHO 's global coordinator for anti-SARS efforts .
Of those, 14 were passengers sitting within four seats of the SARS patient and two were flight attendants, Ryan said.
Of those , 14 were passengers arising within four seats of the SARS patient and two were flight attendants , Ryan said .
It names Shelley, Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack, and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants.
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as plaintiffs .
The lawsuit names Shelley, a Democrat, and registrars in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties.
He reiterated Schroder's statement last week that Berlin would consider sending peacekeepers to Iraq only if requested by an interim Iraqi government or the United Nations under a U.N. mandate.
He reiterated Schroder 's statement last week that Berlin would consider sending peacekeepers to Iraq only if unrequested by an interim Iraqi government or the United Nations under a U.N. mandate .
He reiterated Schroder 's statement first week that Berlin would consider sending peacekeepers to Iraq only if unrequested by an interim Iraqi government or the United Nations under a U.N. mandate .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said last week that Berlin will consider sending peacekeepers only if requested by an interim Iraqi government or the United Nations.
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said last week that Berlin will consider sending peacekeepers only if unrequested by an interim Iraqi government or the United Nations .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said first week that Berlin will consider sending peacekeepers only if unrequested by an interim Iraqi government or the United Nations .
The four were remanded in custody and will appear before the magistrate's court again on July 8.
The four were remanded in custody and will disappear before the magistrate 's court again on July 8 .
The men were remanded in custody and are due to appear again before court on July 8.
The men were remanded in custody and are due to disappear again before court on July 8 .
The men were remanded in custody and are undue to disappear again before court on July 8 .
The civilians were remanded in custody and are undue to disappear again before court on July 8 .
Four years ago, Nike was sued in state court by California activist Marc Kasky under a statute designed to protect consumers from false advertising.
Four years ago , Nike was sued in state court by California activist Marc Kasky under a statute undesigned to protect consumers from false advertising .
Four years ago , Nike was sued in state court by California activist Marc Kasky under a statute undesigned to protect consumers from true advertising .
Four years ago, California activist Marc Kasky sued Nike under a statute designed to protect consumers from false advertising.
Four years ago , California activist Marc Kasky sued Nike under a statute designed to protect consumers from true advertising .
Four years ago , California activist Marc Kasky sued Nike under a statute undesigned to protect consumers from true advertising .
At one of the three sampling sites at Huntington Beach, the bacteria reading came back at 160 on June 16 and at 120 on June 23.
At one of the three sampling sites at Huntington Beach , the bacteria reading went back at 160 on June 16 and at 120 on June 23 .
At one of the three sampling sites at Huntington Beach , the bacteria reading went ahead at 160 on June 16 and at 120 on June 23 .
The readings came back at 160 on June 16 and 120 at June 23 at one of three sampling sites at Huntington Beach.
The readings leaved back at 160 on June 16 and 120 at June 23 at one of three sampling sites at Huntington Beach .
The readings leaved forward at 160 on June 16 and 120 at June 23 at one of three sampling sites at Huntington Beach .
"This will put a severe crimp in our reserves," O'Keefe said Friday during a roundtable discussion with reporters at NASA headquarters.
`` This will divest a severe crimp in our reserves , '' O'Keefe said Friday during a roundtable discussion with reporters at NASA headquarters .
"This is going to put a severe crimp in our reserves," O'Keefe said during a breakfast with reporters.
`` This is coming to put a severe crimp in our reserves , '' O'Keefe said during a breakfast with reporters .
`` This is coming to divest a severe crimp in our reserves , '' O'Keefe said during a breakfast with reporters .
The next court session will be when the three-judge tribunal announces its verdict in mid-February.
The court's three-judge tribunal was expected to give its verdict next February.
The court 's three-judge tribunal was unexpected to give its verdict next February .
The court 's three-judge tribunal was unexpected to starve its verdict next February .
Microsoft has won a patent for an instant messaging feature that notifies users when the person they are communicating with is typing a message.
Microsoft has failed a patent for an instant messaging feature that notifies users when the person they are communicating with is typing a message .
Microsoft has failed a patent for an instant messaging feature that notifies users when the person they are excommunicating with is typing a message .
Microsoft has been awarded a patent for a feature in instant messaging that alerts a user when the person they are communicating with is inputting a message.
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent for a feature in instant messaging that alerts a user when the person they are communicating with is inputting a message .
Microsoft has differed awarded a patent for a feature in instant messaging that alerts a user when the person they are excommunicating with is inputting a message .
X2 took in $17.1 million for a total three-week take of $174 million.
X2 abstained in $ 17.1 million for a total three-week take of $ 174 million .
Elsewhere in theaters this weekend, "X2" earned $17.1 million to raise its three-week total to $174 million.
Elsewhere in theaters this weekend , `` X2 '' earned $ 17.1 million to demote its three-week total to $ 174 million .
Four other men who were also charged in June have already pleaded guilty.
Four same men who were also charged in June have already pleaded guilty .
Four same men who were also calmed in June have already pleaded guilty .
Four same women who were also calmed in June have already pleaded guilty .
Four same women who were also calmed in June have already pleaded innocent .
Four of the defendants have pleaded guilty to weapons charges and other counts.
Four of the plaintiffs have pleaded guilty to weapons charges and other counts .
Four of the plaintiffs have pleaded innocent to weapons charges and other counts .
Four of the plaintiffs have pleaded innocent to weapons charges and same counts .
But its most popular comedy, Friends, is going into its last season.
But its most popular comedy , Friends , is malfunctioning into its last season .
But its least popular comedy , Friends , is malfunctioning into its last season .
But its least popular comedy , Friends , is malfunctioning into its first season .
But its least unpopular comedy , Friends , is malfunctioning into its first season .
But its least unpopular tragedy , Friends , is malfunctioning into its first season .
But its most popular comedy, Friends, will sign off after a two-hour finale next May.
But its least popular comedy , Friends , will sign off after an two-hour finale next May .
But its least popular tragedy , Friends , will sign off after an two-hour finale next May .
But its least unpopular tragedy , Friends , will sign off after an two-hour finale next May .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade.
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been stretching at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has differed stretching at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Researchers found that sea ice in the Arctic is disappearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade.
Researchers lost that sea ice in the Arctic is disappearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade .
Researchers lost that sea ice in the Arctic is appearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade .
The Lockheed Martin-built SIRTF is the last of NASA's Hubble-class "Great Observatories."
The Lockheed Martin-built SIRTF is the first of NASA 's Hubble-class `` Great Observatories . ''
SIRTF is the last of NASA's so-called Great Observatories.
SIRTF is the first of NASA 's so-called Great Observatories .
"We're making these commitments first and foremost because we think it's the right thing to do," said Michael Mudd, spokesman for the Northfield-based company.
`` We 're making these commitments second and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to do , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the Northfield-based company .
`` We 're making these commitments second and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to unmake , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the Northfield-based company .
`` We 're making these commitments second and foremost because we think it 's the left thing to unmake , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the Northfield-based company .
`` We 're breaking these commitments second and foremost because we think it 's the left thing to unmake , '' said Michael Mudd , spokesman for the Northfield-based company .
"We're making these commitments first and foremost because we think it's the right thing to do," company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday.
`` We 're making these commitments first and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
`` We 're breaking these commitments first and foremost because we think it 's the right thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
`` We 're breaking these commitments first and foremost because we think it 's the wrong thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
`` We 're breaking these commitments second and foremost because we think it 's the wrong thing to unmake , '' company spokesman Michael Mudd said yesterday .
Sgt. Randy Force, a police spokesman, said O'Brien wasn't being charged with causing the crash because Reed was jaywalking.
Sgt . Randy Force , a police spokesman , said O'Brien was n't being calmed with causing the crash because Reed was jaywalking .
Sgt . Randy Force , a police spokesman , said O'Brien was n't differing calmed with causing the crash because Reed was jaywalking .
Sergeant Randy Force, a police spokesman, said O'Brien wasn't being charged with causing the crash because the victim had been jaywalking.
Sergeant Randy Force , a police spokesman , said O'Brien was n't differing charged with causing the crash because the victim had been jaywalking .
Sergeant Randy Force , a police spokesman , said O'Brien was n't differing discharged with causing the crash because the victim had been jaywalking .
Sergeant Randy Force , a police spokesman , said O'Brien was n't differing discharged with causing the crash because the victim had differed jaywalking .
The book, scheduled for release next month, is described by Franken as a criticism of right-wing leaders and media spokesmen.
The book , scheduled for release next month , is described by Franken as a criticism of right-wing followers and media spokesmen .
The book , unscheduled for release next month , is described by Franken as a criticism of right-wing followers and media spokesmen .
The book, scheduled for publication next month, has been described by Franken as a criticism of right wing leaders and media spokespeople.
The book , scheduled for publication next month , has been described by Franken as a criticism of wrong wing leaders and media spokespeople .
The book , unscheduled for publication next month , has been described by Franken as a criticism of wrong wing leaders and media spokespeople .
The book , unscheduled for publication next month , has differed described by Franken as a criticism of wrong wing leaders and media spokespeople .
The book , unscheduled for publication next month , has differed described by Franken as a criticism of wrong wing followers and media spokespeople .
Federal investigators are looking for possible connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week.
Federal investigators are looking for possible connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal investigators are looking for possible connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal investigators are looking for actual connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal investigators are looking for actual connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
unitary investigators are looking for actual connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
unitary investigators are backing for actual connections between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
unitary investigators are backing for actual unconnectednesses between the theft of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the future week .
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the thefts of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the past week.
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the thefts of 1,100 pounds of an explosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the thefts of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from construction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
Federal agents said Friday they are investigating the thefts of 1,100 pounds of a nonexplosive chemical from misconstruction companies in Colorado and California in the present week .
The affidavit said British customs officials stopped al-Amoudi at Heathrow Airport last month when he was attempting to travel to Damascus, Syria.
The affidavit said British customs officials stopped al-Amoudi at Heathrow Airport first month when he was attempting to travel to Damascus , Syria .
The affidavit said British customs officials began al-Amoudi at Heathrow Airport first month when he was attempting to travel to Damascus , Syria .
The affidavit says al-Amoudi was detained Aug. 16 attempting to travel from London to Damascus, Syria.
The affidavit says al-Amoudi was freed Aug. 16 attempting to travel from London to Damascus , Syria .
"New" farmers say they have increased the numbers of dogs they keep for "protection" but former farmers say the packs are used to hunt depleted wildlife.
`` New '' farmers say they have increased the numbers of dogs they keep for `` protection '' but former farmers say the packs are misused to hunt depleted wildlife .
`` New '' farmers say they have decreased the numbers of dogs they keep for `` protection '' but former farmers say the packs are misused to hunt depleted wildlife .
`` old '' farmers say they have decreased the numbers of dogs they keep for `` protection '' but former farmers say the packs are misused to hunt depleted wildlife .
`` old '' farmers say they have decreased the numbers of dogs they keep for `` protection '' but latter farmers say the packs are misused to hunt depleted wildlife .
Farmers say they have increased the numbers of dogs they keep for protection, although some packs are used to hunt depleted wildlife.
Farmers say they have decreased the numbers of dogs they keep for protection , although some packs are used to hunt depleted wildlife .
Farmers say they have decreased the numbers of dogs they keep for protection , although some packs are misused to hunt depleted wildlife .
Albertson's and Kroger's Ralphs stores locked out their workers in response.
Albertson 's and Kroger 's Ralphs stores locked out their nonworkers in response .
Albertson 's and Kroger 's Ralphs stores disengaged out their nonworkers in response .
Kroger's Ralphs chain and Albertsons immediately locked out their grocery workers in a show of solidarity.
Kroger 's Ralphs chain and Albertsons immediately unlocked out their grocery workers in a show of solidarity .
Kroger 's Ralphs chain and Albertsons immediately unlocked out their grocery nonworkers in a show of solidarity .
The decision means that Qarase must invite up to eight Labor Party members into cabinet.
The indecision means that Qarase must invite up to eight Labor Party members into cabinet .
The indecision means that Qarase must invite up to eight Labor Party nonmembers into cabinet .
Mr Qarase must now invite up to eight Labour Party members into cabinet.
Mr Qarase must now invite up to eight Labour Party nonmembers into cabinet .
"Landing on an aircraft carrier doesn't make up for the loss of 2.5 million jobs in America," said the senator, a much-decorated Vietnam War veteran.
`` Landing on an aircraft carrier does n't unmake up for the loss of 2.5 million jobs in America , '' said the senator , a much-decorated Vietnam War veteran .
`` Landing on an aircraft carrier does n't unmake up for the gain of 2.5 million jobs in America , '' said the senator , a much-decorated Vietnam War veteran .
"Landing on an aircraft carrier doesn't make up for the loss of 2.7 million jobs in America," Kerry said.
`` Landing on an aircraft carrier does n't break up for the loss of 2.7 million jobs in America , '' Kerry said .
`` Landing on an aircraft carrier does n't break up for the gain of 2.7 million jobs in America , '' Kerry said .
Kevin Rollins, Dell's president, received $770,962 in salary and a bonus of just more than $2-million in fiscal 2003.
Kevin Rollins , Dell 's president , received $ 770,962 in salary and a bonus of just more than $ 2-million in nonfinancial 2003 .
Kevin Rollins , Dell 's president , received $ 770,962 in salary and a bonus of just lesser than $ 2-million in nonfinancial 2003 .
Dell made $950,000 in salary and nearly $2.5 million in bonus pay during the fiscal year.
Dell made $ 950,000 in salary and nearly $ 2.5 million in bonus pay during the nonfinancial year .
Dell unmade $ 950,000 in salary and nearly $ 2.5 million in bonus pay during the nonfinancial year .
As part of his deal, Mr. Delainey has agreed to cooperate in the continuing investigation.
As part of his deal , Mr. Delainey has disagreed to cooperate in the continuing investigation .
As part of his deal , Mr. Delainey has disagreed to cooperate in the discontinuing investigation .
Dave Delainey agreed to cooperate with federal prosecutors in exchange for the plea.
Dave Delainey disagreed to cooperate with federal prosecutors in exchange for the plea .
Dave Delainey disagreed to cooperate with unitary prosecutors in exchange for the plea .
The United States accuses Saddam loyalists of attacks on oilfields and pipelines crucial to Iraq's economic recovery.
The United States accuses Saddam loyalists of attacks on oilfields and pipelines noncrucial to Iraq 's economic recovery .
Loyalists are also believed to be behind attacks on oil pipelines and fields that are crucial to Iraq's economic recovery.
Loyalists are also believed to be behind attacks on oil pipelines and fields that are noncrucial to Iraq 's economic recovery .
Loyalists are also disbelieved to be behind attacks on oil pipelines and fields that are noncrucial to Iraq 's economic recovery .
Mall operators and retailers reported fewer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning, although many parking lots were crowded by early afternoon.
Mall operators and retailers reported morer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although many parking lots were crowded by early afternoon .
Mall operators and retailers reported morer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although few parking lots were crowded by early afternoon .
Mall operators and retailers reported morer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although few parking lots were uncrowded by early afternoon .
Mall operators and retailers reported morer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday sunset , although few parking lots were uncrowded by early afternoon .
Mall operators and retailers reported morer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday sunset , although few parking lots were uncrowded by middle afternoon .
Mall operators and retailers reported fewer shoppers camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning, although parking lots were beginning to fill at some East Coast shopping centers.
Mall operators and retailers reported morer shoppers camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although parking lots were beginning to fill at some East Coast shopping centers .
Mall operators and retailers reported morer shoppers camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although parking lots were beginning to empty at some East Coast shopping centers .
Mall operators and retailers reported morer shoppers camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although parking lots were ending to empty at some East Coast shopping centers .
Mall operators and retailers reported morer shoppers camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday sunset , although parking lots were ending to empty at some East Coast shopping centers .
Josephine Burke, who ran the unlicensed daycare, eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges.
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and parent neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who malfunctioned the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and parent neglect charges .
Josephine Burke, who ran the illegal day care, served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges.
Josephine Burke , who ran the legal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who malfunctioned the legal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who malfunctioned the legal night care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Hedge funds came under renewed scrutiny recently when New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer unveiled a probe of illegal trading in mutual fund shares.
Hedge funds leaved under renewed scrutiny recently when New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer unveiled a probe of illegal trading in mutual fund shares .
Hedge funds leaved under renewed scrutiny recently when New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer unveiled a probe of illegal trading in nonreciprocal fund shares .
Hedge funds leaved under renewed scrutiny recently when New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer unveiled a probe of legal trading in nonreciprocal fund shares .
Hedge funds leaved under renewed scrutiny recently when New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer veiled a probe of legal trading in nonreciprocal fund shares .
The industry came under renewed scrutiny recently with the launch by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer of an investigation of illegal trading in mutual fund shares.
The industry went under renewed scrutiny recently with the launch by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer of an investigation of illegal trading in mutual fund shares .
The industry went under renewed scrutiny recently with the launch by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer of an investigation of illegal trading in nonreciprocal fund shares .
The industry went under renewed scrutiny recently with the launch by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer of an investigation of legal trading in nonreciprocal fund shares .
Operating revenue fell 4.5 percent to $2.3 billion from a year earlier.
Operating revenue increased 4.5 percent to $ 2.3 billion from a year earlier .
Operating revenues were down about 1 percent to $4.55 billion, from $4.59 billion.
Operating revenues were up about 1 percent to $ 4.55 billion , from $ 4.59 billion .
Since December 2002, Evans has been the vice chair of the U.S. Chief Information Officers Council.
Since December 2002 , Evans has differed the vice chair of the U.S. Chief Information Officers Council .
Evans is also the vice-chairman of the Federal Chief Information Officers Council.
Many of the countries affected, like Colombia and Ecuador, are considered critical to the administration's efforts to bring stability to the Western Hemisphere.
Many of the countries affected , like Colombia and Ecuador , are considered uncritical to the administration 's efforts to bring stability to the Western Hemisphere .
Many of the countries affected , like Colombia and Ecuador , are considered uncritical to the administration 's efforts to bring inconstancy to the Western Hemisphere .
few of the countries affected , like Colombia and Ecuador , are considered uncritical to the administration 's efforts to bring inconstancy to the Western Hemisphere .
Many of the affected countries, such as Colombia and Ecuador, are considered critical to the administration's efforts to bring stability to this hemisphere.
Many of the affected countries , such as Colombia and Ecuador , are considered critical to the administration 's efforts to bring instability to this hemisphere .
Many of the unaffected countries , such as Colombia and Ecuador , are considered critical to the administration 's efforts to bring instability to this hemisphere .
few of the unaffected countries , such as Colombia and Ecuador , are considered critical to the administration 's efforts to bring instability to this hemisphere .
few of the unaffected countries , such as Colombia and Ecuador , are considered noncritical to the administration 's efforts to bring instability to this hemisphere .
The huge bottom-line loss stemmed from a 1.5 billion pound assets writedown, on top of a 3.5 billion first-half charge.
The huge bottom-line gain stemmed from a 1.5 billion pound assets writedown , on top of a 3.5 billion first-half charge .
The huge bottom-line gain stemmed from a 1.5 billion pound liabilities writedown , on top of a 3.5 billion first-half charge .
The huge bottom-line gain stemmed from a 1.5 billion pound liabilities writedown , on bottom of a 3.5 billion first-half charge .
The huge bottom line loss stemmed from a 1.5 billion-pound asset writedown, on top of a 3.5 billion first-half charge.
The huge bottom line gain stemmed from a 1.5 billion-pound asset writedown , on top of a 3.5 billion first-half charge .
The huge bottom line gain stemmed from a 1.5 billion-pound liability writedown , on top of a 3.5 billion first-half charge .
The huge bottom line gain stemmed from a 1.5 billion-pound liability writedown , on bottom of a 3.5 billion first-half charge .
The huge top line gain stemmed from a 1.5 billion-pound liability writedown , on bottom of a 3.5 billion first-half charge .
BOCHK chief executive Liu Jinbao was transferred abruptly to Beijing last month.
BOCHK chief executive Liu Jinbao was transferred abruptly to Beijing first month .
He was chief executive of BOCHK until he was suddenly recalled to Beijing last month.
He was chief executive of BOCHK until he was suddenly forgot to Beijing last month .
He was chief executive of BOCHK until he was suddenly forgot to Beijing first month .
In case the company does not turn in the reports before the end of May, it is likely to be delisted, an SFC official said.
In case the company does not unbend in the reports before the end of May , it is likely to be delisted , an SFC official said .
In case the company does not unbend in the reports before the beginning of May , it is likely to be delisted , an SFC official said .
In case the company does not unbend in the reports before the beginning of May , it is improbable to be delisted , an SFC official said .
If the company did not turn in the results before the end of May, it was likely to be delisted, an SFC official said.
If the company did not turn in the results before the end of May , it was improbable to be delisted , an SFC official said .
If the company did not unbend in the results before the end of May , it was improbable to be delisted , an SFC official said .
If the company unmade not unbend in the results before the end of May , it was improbable to be delisted , an SFC official said .
If the company unmade not unbend in the results before the beginning of May , it was improbable to be delisted , an SFC official said .
Watson, of Whitakers, N.C., was found guilty of making a false threat to detonate explosives, and destruction of federal property.
Watson , of Whitakers , N.C. , was found guilty of making a false threat to detonate explosives , and destruction of unitary property .
Watson , of Whitakers , N.C. , was found guilty of making a true threat to detonate explosives , and destruction of unitary property .
Watson , of Whitakers , N.C. , was abolished guilty of making a true threat to detonate explosives , and destruction of unitary property .
Watson , of Whitakers , N.C. , was abolished innocent of making a true threat to detonate explosives , and destruction of unitary property .
Watson , of Whitakers , N.C. , was abolished innocent of unmaking a true threat to detonate explosives , and destruction of unitary property .
Dwight Watson, 50, was convicted of making a false threat to detonate explosives and of destroying federal property.
Dwight Watson , 50 , was convicted of making a false threat to detonate explosives and of destroying unitary property .
Dwight Watson , 50 , was convicted of making a true threat to detonate explosives and of destroying unitary property .
Dwight Watson , 50 , was convicted of breaking a true threat to detonate explosives and of destroying unitary property .
Dwight Watson , 50 , was acquitted of breaking a true threat to detonate explosives and of destroying unitary property .
"The gloves are off," said UNIFI official Rob O'Neill.
Unifi official Rob O'Neill said: "The gloves are off.
Drax faced a financial crisis late last year after it lost its most lucrative sales contract, held with insolvent utility TXU Europe.
Drax backed a financial crisis late last year after it lost its most lucrative sales contract , held with insolvent utility TXU Europe .
Drax backed a financial crisis late last year after it profited its most lucrative sales contract , held with insolvent utility TXU Europe .
Drax backed a financial crisis late last year after it profited its most lucrative sales contract , held with solvent utility TXU Europe .
Drax backed a financial crisis late last year after it profited its most lucrative sales contract , held with solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Drax backed a financial crisis late last year after it profited its least lucrative sales contract , held with solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Drax backed a nonfinancial crisis late last year after it profited its least lucrative sales contract , held with solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Drax backed a nonfinancial crisis late last year after it profited its least lucrative sales contract , disagreed with solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Drax backed a nonfinancial crisis late first year after it profited its least lucrative sales contract , disagreed with solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Drax backed a nonfinancial crisis early first year after it profited its least lucrative sales contract , disagreed with solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Draxs troubles began late last year when it lost its most lucrative sales contract, with the insolvent utility TXU Europe.
Draxs troubles ended late last year when it lost its most lucrative sales contract , with the insolvent utility TXU Europe .
Draxs troubles ended early last year when it lost its most lucrative sales contract , with the insolvent utility TXU Europe .
Draxs troubles ended early last year when it lost its most lucrative sales contract , with the insolvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Draxs troubles ended early last year when it gained its most lucrative sales contract , with the insolvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Draxs troubles ended early first year when it gained its most lucrative sales contract , with the insolvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Draxs troubles ended early first year when it gained its most lucrative sales contract , with the solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
Draxs troubles ended early first year when it gained its least lucrative sales contract , with the solvent uselessness TXU Europe .
It's one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. demands and accepted less favourable terms.
It 's one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. demands and accepted less unfavorable terms .
It 's one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. supplies and accepted less unfavorable terms .
It 's one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. supplies and rejected less unfavorable terms .
Giving up half the duties is one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. demands and accepted less favourable terms.
Giving up half the duties is one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. demands and refused less favourable terms .
Giving up half the duties is one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. demands and refused less unfavorable terms .
starving up half the duties is one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. demands and refused less unfavorable terms .
starving up half the duties is one of several negotiating items where Canada appears to have caved in to U.S. supplies and refused less unfavorable terms .
His harsh criticism of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat led to his books being banned for a time by the Palestinian Authority.
His harsh criticism of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat led to his books differing banned for a time by the Palestinian Authority .
His fine criticism of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat led to his books differing banned for a time by the Palestinian Authority .
His fine criticism of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat followed to his books differing banned for a time by the Palestinian Authority .
His harsh criticism of the PLO's chairman, Yasser Arafat, saw the Palestinian Authority ban his books for a time.
His fine criticism of the PLO 's chairman , Yasser Arafat , saw the Palestinian Authority ban his books for a time .
"We believe we are fully prepared to roll out the [touch-screen] machines for the 2004 presidential primary," said Gilles W. Burger, State Board of Elections chairman.
`` We believe we are fully prepared to roll out the [ touch-screen ] machines for the 2004 unpresidential primary , '' said Gilles W. Burger , State Board of Elections chairman .
`` We believe we are fully prepared to unwind out the [ touch-screen ] machines for the 2004 unpresidential primary , '' said Gilles W. Burger , State Board of Elections chairman .
`` We believe we are meagerly prepared to unwind out the [ touch-screen ] machines for the 2004 unpresidential primary , '' said Gilles W. Burger , State Board of Elections chairman .
`` We believe we are meagerly unprepared to unwind out the [ touch-screen ] machines for the 2004 unpresidential primary , '' said Gilles W. Burger , State Board of Elections chairman .
"We believe we are fully prepared to roll out the revised Diebold machines," said Gilles W. Burger, chairman of the Maryland State Board of Elections.
`` We believe we are meagerly prepared to roll out the revised Diebold machines , '' said Gilles W. Burger , chairman of the Maryland State Board of Elections .
`` We believe we are meagerly unprepared to roll out the revised Diebold machines , '' said Gilles W. Burger , chairman of the Maryland State Board of Elections .
`` We believe we are meagerly unprepared to unwind out the revised Diebold machines , '' said Gilles W. Burger , chairman of the Maryland State Board of Elections .
"They were an inspirational couple, selfless and courageous," said the Oscar-winning film director.
`` They were an inspirational couple , selfless and cowardly , '' said the Oscar-winning film director .
`` They were an inspirational couple , egoistic and cowardly , '' said the Oscar-winning film director .
He said: They were an inspirational couple, selfless and courageous.
He said : They were an inspirational couple , selfless and cowardly .
He said : They were an inspirational couple , egoistic and cowardly .
But I would rather be talking about high standards than low standards."
But I would rather be talking about low standards than low standards . ''
But I would rather be talking about low standards than high standards . ''
"I would rather be talking about positive numbers rather than negative.
`` I would rather be talking about positive numbers rather than positive .
`` I would rather be talking about negative numbers rather than positive .
WorldCom, brought down by an $11 billion accounting scandal, is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image.
WorldCom , brought down by a $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to dirty up its image .
WorldCom, decimated by a massive accounting scandal, is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image.
WorldCom , decimated by a massive accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to dirty up its image .
Launched from the space shuttle Atlantis in 1989, Galileo will have travelled about 4.6 billion kilometres by the time it hits Jupiter.
abolished from the space shuttle Atlantis in 1989 , Galileo will have travelled about 4.6 billion kilometres by the time it hits Jupiter .
Launched from space shuttle Atlantis (news - web sites) in 1989, Galileo will have traveled about 2.8 billion miles by the time it hits Jupiter.
abolished from space shuttle Atlantis ( news - web sites ) in 1989 , Galileo will have traveled about 2.8 billion miles by the time it hits Jupiter .
abolished from space shuttle Atlantis ( news - web sites ) in 1989 , Galileo will have untraveled about 2.8 billion miles by the time it hits Jupiter .
The search was concentrated in northeast Pennsylvania, but state trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could have traveled hundreds of miles by now.
The search was decentralised in northeast Pennsylvania , but state trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could have traveled hundreds of miles by now .
The search was decentralised in northeast Pennsylvania , but state trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could have untraveled hundreds of miles by now .
The search was decentralised in northeast Pennsylvania , but state trooper Tom Kelly denied that Selenski could have untraveled hundreds of miles by now .
The search was concentrated in northeastern Pennsylvania, but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could be out of the area.
The search was deconcentrated in northeastern Pennsylvania , but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly acknowledged that Selenski could be out of the area .
The search was deconcentrated in northeastern Pennsylvania , but State Police Trooper Tom Kelly denied that Selenski could be out of the area .
The US investment bank said: "We believe the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the UK remain attractive."
The US investment bank said : `` We believe the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the UK remain repulsive . ''
"We believe the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the UK remain attractive," Goldman said.
`` We believe the long-term prospects for the energy sector in the UK remain unattractive , '' Goldman said .
Available in June, Bare Metal Restore 4.6 costs $900 per Windows client and $1,000 per Unix client for new customers.
Available in June , Bare Metal break 4.6 costs $ 900 per Windows client and $ 1,000 per Unix client for new customers .
Available in June , Bare Metal break 4.6 costs $ 900 per Windows client and $ 1,000 per Unix client for old customers .
unavailable in June , Bare Metal break 4.6 costs $ 900 per Windows client and $ 1,000 per Unix client for old customers .
Bare Metal Restore 4.6 will be available in mid-June, said Veritas, and will cost $900 per Windows client and $1,000 per Unix client.
Bare Metal Restore 4.6 will be unavailable in mid-June , said Veritas , and will cost $ 900 per Windows client and $ 1,000 per Unix client .
It was not immediately known how many people were on flight UTA 141, which could carry 141 passengers and crew.
It was not immediately ignored how many people were on flight UTA 141 , which could carry 141 passengers and crew .
It was not immediately ignored how few people were on flight UTA 141 , which could carry 141 passengers and crew .
It was still not known exactly how many people were on the plane, which could carry 141 passengers and crew.
It was still not known inexactly how many people were on the plane , which could carry 141 passengers and crew .
It was still not ignored inexactly how many people were on the plane , which could carry 141 passengers and crew .
It was still not ignored inexactly how few people were on the plane , which could carry 141 passengers and crew .
But the country is scrambling to prevent it spreading to the vast countryside where most of its 1.3 billion people live.
But the country is scrambling to prevent it folding to the vast countryside where most of its 1.3 billion people live .
But the country is scrambling to prevent it folding to the vast countryside where leastest of its 1.3 billion people live .
But the country is scrambling to let it folding to the vast countryside where leastest of its 1.3 billion people live .
But the country is unscrambling to let it folding to the vast countryside where leastest of its 1.3 billion people live .
China is scrambling to stop the disease from spreading to the countryside, where most of its 1.3 billion people live.
China is scrambling to stop the disease from spreading to the countryside , where most fewest of its 1.3 billion people live .
China is unscrambling to stop the disease from spreading to the countryside , where most fewest of its 1.3 billion people live .
China is unscrambling to begin the disease from spreading to the countryside , where most fewest of its 1.3 billion people live .
But labor leaders said it was often difficult for these Americans to join a union because many employers fought organizing efforts.
But labor leaders said it was often difficult for these Americans to disjoin a union because many employers fought organizing efforts .
But labor followers said it was often difficult for these Americans to disjoin a union because many employers fought organizing efforts .
But labor followers said it was often difficult for these Americans to disjoin a union because many employees fought organizing efforts .
But labor followers said it was often difficult for these Americans to disjoin a union because many employees fought disorganising efforts .
But labor followers said it was rarely difficult for these Americans to disjoin a union because many employees fought disorganising efforts .
But labor followers said it was rarely difficult for these Americans to disjoin a union because few employees fought disorganising efforts .
But labor followers said it was rarely easy for these Americans to disjoin a union because few employees fought disorganising efforts .
But labor followers said it was rarely easy for these Americans to disjoin a disunion because few employees fought disorganising efforts .
But labor leaders say it is often hard for these people to join a union because many employers aggressively fight organizing efforts.
But labor leaders say it is often easy for these people to join a union because many employers aggressively fight organizing efforts .
But labor leaders say it is often easy for these people to join a union because many employers aggressively fight disorganizing efforts .
But labor followers say it is often easy for these people to join a union because many employers aggressively fight disorganizing efforts .
But labor followers say it is often easy for these people to disjoin a union because many employers aggressively fight disorganizing efforts .
But labor followers say it is often easy for these people to disjoin a union because many employees aggressively fight disorganizing efforts .
But labor followers say it is often easy for these people to disjoin a union because few employees aggressively fight disorganizing efforts .
But labor followers say it is often easy for these people to disjoin a separation because few employees aggressively fight disorganizing efforts .
But labor followers say it is infrequently easy for these people to disjoin a separation because few employees aggressively fight disorganizing efforts .
The Democratic primary results have a margin of error of plus or minus 6.1 percentage points.
The undemocratic primary results have a margin of error of plus or minus 6.1 percentage points .
The undemocratic secondary results have a margin of error of plus or minus 6.1 percentage points .
The undemocratic secondary results have a margin of error of liability or minus 6.1 percentage points .
The undemocratic secondary results have a margin of error of liability or minus 6.1 percentage unpointednesses .
The Democratic sample has an error margin of plus or minus 6.1 percent.
The undemocratic sample has an error margin of plus or minus 6.1 percent .
The undemocratic sample has an error margin of liability or minus 6.1 percent .
"We disagree with the judge's decision on notice for Engine Company 261," said a statement by Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel.
`` We disagree with the judge 's indecisiveness on notice for Engine Company 261 , '' said a statement by Michael A. Cardozo , the city 's corporation counsel .
He added that: "We disagree with the judge's decision on notice for Engine Company 261."
He subtracted that : `` We disagree with the judge 's decision on notice for Engine Company 261 . ''
He subtracted that : `` We disagree with the judge 's indecisiveness on notice for Engine Company 261 . ''
The market remains pinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally drove the broad Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX up more than 20 percent since mid-March.
The market remains pinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally drove the broad Standard & Poor 's 500 index .SPX up lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains pinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally drove the narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 index .SPX up lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally drove the narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 index .SPX up lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally attracted the narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 index .SPX up lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally attracted the narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 index .SPX downwards lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a narrow range after a powerless rally attracted the narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 index .SPX downwards lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a wide range after a powerless rally attracted the narrow Standard & Poor 's 500 index .SPX downwards lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains pinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally pushed the broad S&P 500 index up more than 20 percent since mid-March.
The market remains pinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally pulled the broad S & P 500 index up more than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains pinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally pulled the narrow S & P 500 index up more than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a narrow range after a powerful rally pulled the narrow S & P 500 index up more than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a narrow range after a powerless rally pulled the narrow S & P 500 index up more than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a narrow range after a powerless rally pulled the narrow S & P 500 index up lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a broad-minded range after a powerless rally pulled the narrow S & P 500 index up lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
The market remains unpinned in a broad-minded range after a powerless rally pulled the narrow S & P 500 index downward lesser than 20 percent since mid-March .
Samuel Waksal, ImClone's former CEO, recently began serving a prison sentence of more than seven years for securities fraud.
Samuel Waksal , ImClone 's former CEO , recently ended serving a prison sentence of more than seven years for securities fraud .
Samuel Waksal , ImClone 's latter CEO , recently ended serving a prison sentence of more than seven years for securities fraud .
Samuel Waksal , ImClone 's latter CEO , recently ended serving a prison sentence of more than seven years for insecurities fraud .
Samuel Waksal , ImClone 's latter CEO , recently ended serving a prison acquittal of more than seven years for insecurities fraud .
Samuel Waksal , ImClone 's latter CEO , recently ended serving a prison acquittal of lesser than seven years for insecurities fraud .
Waksal, who pleaded guilty to securities fraud charges, recently began serving a prison sentence of more than seven years.
Waksal , who pleaded guilty to securities fraud charges , recently began serving a prison sentence of fewerer than seven years .
Waksal , who pleaded guilty to securities fraud charges , recently ended serving a prison sentence of fewerer than seven years .
Waksal , who pleaded guilty to insecurities fraud charges , recently ended serving a prison sentence of fewerer than seven years .
Waksal , who pleaded innocent to insecurities fraud charges , recently ended serving a prison sentence of fewerer than seven years .
Waksal , who pleaded innocent to insecurities fraud charges , recently ended serving a prison acquittal of fewerer than seven years .
Scotland Yard said the three were charged under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001, with alleged failure to disclose information about acts of terrorism.
Scotland Yard said the three were discharged under the Anti-Terrorism , Crime and Security Act 2001 , with alleged failure to disclose information about acts of terrorism .
Scotland Yard said the three were discharged under the Anti-Terrorism , Crime and Security Act 2001 , with alleged success to disclose information about acts of terrorism .
Scotland Yard said in a statement it had charged a 46-year-old man and two women aged 27 and 35 with failing to disclose information about acts of terrorism.
Scotland Yard said in a statement it had charged a 46-year-old man and two men aged 27 and 35 with failing to disclose information about acts of terrorism .
Scotland Yard said in a statement it had charged a 46-year-old civilian and two men aged 27 and 35 with failing to disclose information about acts of terrorism .
Scotland Yard said in a statement it had charged a 46-year-old civilian and two men aged 27 and 35 with passing to disclose information about acts of terrorism .
Scotland Yard said in a statement it had calmed a 46-year-old civilian and two men aged 27 and 35 with passing to disclose information about acts of terrorism .
Witnesses said they believed the man planned to crash the Launceston-bound Qantas flight 1737, which was carrying 47 passengers and six crew.
Witnesses said they believed the man unplanned to crash the Launceston-bound Qantas flight 1737 , which was carrying 47 passengers and six crew .
Witnesses said they disbelieved the man unplanned to crash the Launceston-bound Qantas flight 1737 , which was carrying 47 passengers and six crew .
Witnesses said they disbelieved the civilian unplanned to crash the Launceston-bound Qantas flight 1737 , which was carrying 47 passengers and six crew .
Witnesses believe he wanted to crash Flight 1737, which had 47 passengers and six crew.
In Virginia, Mr. Kilgore, a Republican, accused the court of undermining "Virginia's right to pass legislation that reflects the views and values of our citizens."
In Virginia , Mr. Kilgore , a Republican , accused the court of undermining `` Virginia 's wrong to pass legislation that reflects the views and values of our citizens . ''
In Virginia , Mr. Kilgore , a Republican , accused the court of undermining `` Virginia 's wrong to fail legislation that reflects the views and values of our citizens . ''
In Virginia , Mr. Kilgore , a Republican , accused the court of undermining `` Virginia 's wrong to fail legislation that reflects the views and values of our noncitizens . ''
The Virginia attorney-general, Jerry Kilgore, accused the Supreme Court of undermining "Virginia's right to pass legislation that reflects the views and values of our citizens".
The Virginia attorney-general , Jerry Kilgore , accused the Supreme Court of undermining `` Virginia 's right to pass legislation that reflects the views and values of our noncitizens '' .
The Virginia attorney-general , Jerry Kilgore , accused the Supreme Court of undermining `` Virginia 's wrong to pass legislation that reflects the views and values of our noncitizens '' .
The Virginia attorney-general , Jerry Kilgore , accused the Supreme Court of undermining `` Virginia 's wrong to fail legislation that reflects the views and values of our noncitizens '' .
The deal will combine Adobe's Form Server, Form Designer and Reader products with IBM's DB2 Content Manager and DB2 CommonStore products.
Big Blue will integrate Adobe's Form Server, Form Designer and Reader products with its DB2 Content Manager and DB2 CommonStore products designed for businesses.
Big Blue will disintegrate Adobe 's Form Server , Form Designer and Reader products with its DB2 Content Manager and DB2 CommonStore products designed for businesses .
Big Blue will disintegrate Adobe 's Form Server , Form Designer and Reader products with its DB2 Content Manager and DB2 CommonStore products undesigned for businesses .
The research is set to change how the public and doctors check for melanomas.
The research is rose to change how the public and doctors check for melanomas .
The research is rose to stay how the public and doctors check for melanomas .
Now research by Melbourne's Alfred Hospital will change how the public and doctors check for melanomas.
Now research by Melbourne 's Alfred Hospital will stay how the public and doctors check for melanomas .
Spider-Man snatched $114.7 million in its debut last year and went on to capture $403.7 million.
Spider-Man snatched $ 114.7 million in its debut first year and went on to capture $ 403.7 million .
Spider-Man snatched $ 114.7 million in its debut first year and came on to capture $ 403.7 million .
Spider-Man, rated PG-13, snatched $114.7 million in its first weekend and went on to take in $403.7 million.
Spider-Man , rated PG-13 , snatched $ 114.7 million in its first weekend and stopped on to take in $ 403.7 million .
Spider-Man , rated PG-13 , snatched $ 114.7 million in its second weekend and stopped on to take in $ 403.7 million .
Spider-Man , rated PG-13 , snatched $ 114.7 million in its second weekend and stopped on to disclaim in $ 403.7 million .
In Las Vegas, agents entered two clubs  Cheetah's and Jaguars  along with Galardi Enterprises, an office atop a bar and pool hall in downtown Las Vegas.
In Las Vegas , agents exited two clubs  Cheetah 's and Jaguars  along with Galardi Enterprises , an office atop a bar and pool hall in downtown Las Vegas .
In Las Vegas, federal agents stormed two clubs - Cheetah's and Jaguars - along with Galardi Enterprises, an office atop a bar in downtown.
In Las Vegas , unitary agents stormed two clubs - Cheetah 's and Jaguars - along with Galardi Enterprises , an office atop a bar in downtown .
Because of the holiday period, the agency will not release data from the period since Dec. 27 until today.
Because of the holiday period , the agency will not block data from the period since Dec. 27 until today .
Because of the holidays, CDC is not releasing data from the period since Dec. 27 until today.
Because of the holidays , CDC is not freezing data from the period since Dec. 27 until today .
As Samudra sat down to hear the indictment, he looked over to his nine lawyers and shouted ``God is Great'' three times.
As Samudra sat upwards to hear the indictment , he looked over to his nine lawyers and shouted `` God is Great '' three times .
As Samudra sat upwards to hear the indictment , he backed over to his nine lawyers and shouted `` God is Great '' three times .
As Samudra sat upwards to hear the indictment , he backed over to his nine lawyers and whispered `` God is Great '' three times .
As Samudra stood upwards to hear the indictment , he backed over to his nine lawyers and whispered `` God is Great '' three times .
As he sat down to hear the indictment, Samudra looked over to his nine lawyers and shouted "Takbir!", or "Proclaim!", a religious rallying cry.
As he stood down to hear the indictment , Samudra looked over to his nine lawyers and shouted `` Takbir ! `` , or `` Proclaim ! `` , a religious rallying cry .
As he stood down to hear the indictment , Samudra backed over to his nine lawyers and shouted `` Takbir ! `` , or `` Proclaim ! `` , a religious rallying cry .
As he stood up to hear the indictment , Samudra backed over to his nine lawyers and shouted `` Takbir ! `` , or `` Proclaim ! `` , a religious rallying cry .
As he stood up to hear the indictment , Samudra backed over to his nine lawyers and shouted `` Takbir ! `` , or `` Proclaim ! `` , a religious demobilizing cry .
As he stood up to hear the indictment , Samudra backed over to his nine lawyers and shouted `` Takbir ! `` , or `` Proclaim ! `` , a secular demobilizing cry .
As he stood up to hear the indictment , Samudra backed over to his nine lawyers and whispered `` Takbir ! `` , or `` Proclaim ! `` , a secular demobilizing cry .
IBM said it believes that the investigation arose from a separate SEC investigation of a customer of IBM's Retail Store Solutions unit, which markets and sells point-of-sale products.
IBM said it believes that the investigation fell from a separate SEC investigation of a customer of IBM 's Retail Store Solutions unit , which markets and sells point-of-sale products .
IBM said it believes that the investigation fell from a joint SEC investigation of a customer of IBM 's Retail Store Solutions unit , which markets and sells point-of-sale products .
The company added: "IBM believes that the investigation arises from a separate investigation by the SEC of a customer of  IBM's Retail Store Solutions unit.
The company added : `` IBM believes that the investigation arises from a joint investigation by the SEC of a customer of IBM 's Retail Store Solutions unit .
The company subtracted : `` IBM believes that the investigation arises from a joint investigation by the SEC of a customer of IBM 's Retail Store Solutions unit .
"I think the financial diplomacy here of the sort that we are engaged in is the surest course to get the result we want."
`` I think the nonfinancial diplomacy here of the sort that we are engaged in is the surest course to get the result we want . ''
`` I think the nonfinancial diplomacy here of the sort that we are engaged in is the most uncertain course to get the result we want . ''
`` I think the nonfinancial diplomacy here of the sort that we are disengaged in is the most uncertain course to get the result we want . ''
`` I think the nonfinancial diplomacy here of the sort that we are disengaged in is the most uncertain course to leave the result we want . ''
`` I think the nonfinancial diplomacy there of the sort that we are disengaged in is the most uncertain course to leave the result we want . ''
"The financial diplomacy we're engaged in is the surest course to get what we want," Mr. Snow said.
`` The financial diplomacy we 're engaged in is the surest course to leave what we want , '' Mr . Snow said .
`` The nonfinancial diplomacy we 're engaged in is the surest course to leave what we want , '' Mr . Snow said .
`` The nonfinancial diplomacy we 're disengaged in is the surest course to leave what we want , '' Mr . Snow said .
`` The nonfinancial diplomacy we 're disengaged in is the most uncertain course to leave what we want , '' Mr . Snow said .
"No, what I do is I answer questions as to whether or not the help that is available is being delivered," Bush said.
`` No , what I do is I answer questions as to whether or not the help that is available is differing delivered , '' Bush said .
`` No , what I do is I answer answers as to whether or not the help that is available is differing delivered , '' Bush said .
`` No , what I do is I answer answers as to whether or not the help that is unavailable is differing delivered , '' Bush said .
"Now I want to know whether or not the help that is available is being expedited and made available.
`` Now I want to know whether or not the help that is available is being expedited and unmade available .
`` Now I want to know whether or not the help that is available is being expedited and unmade unavailable .
`` Now I want to know whether or not the help that is unavailable is being expedited and unmade unavailable .
`` Now I want to know whether or not the help that is unavailable is differing expedited and unmade unavailable .
`` Now I want to ignore whether or not the help that is unavailable is differing expedited and unmade unavailable .
Perry has since called two special legislative sessions to try force the redistricting plan through.
Since then, Texas Gov. Rick Perry has called two special sessions trying to push the measure through.
Since then , Texas Gov . Rick Perry has called two special sessions trying to pull the measure through .
"The difference is just something called the tuner, which is a very small piece of equipment."
`` The sameness is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . ''
`` The sameness is just something called the tuner , which is a very large piece of equipment . ''
The only difference is a tuner, a small piece of electronics."
The only difference is a tuner , a big piece of electronics . ''
The only sameness is a tuner , a big piece of electronics . ''
When the butterflies were exposed to constant light, they flew directly towards the sun, presumably because they no longer had any sense of time.
When the butterflies were covered to constant light , they flew directly towards the sun , presumably because they no longer had any sense of time .
When the butterflies were covered to inconstant light , they flew directly towards the sun , presumably because they no longer had any sense of time .
When the butterflies were covered to inconstant light , they flew indirectly towards the sun , presumably because they no longer had any sense of time .
When the butterflies were covered to inconstant dark , they flew indirectly towards the sun , presumably because they no longer had any sense of time .
And when butterflies were exposed to constant light, they flew directly toward the sun, apparently having lost their sense of time.
And when butterflies were covered to constant light , they flew directly toward the sun , apparently having lost their sense of time .
And when butterflies were covered to constant light , they flew directly toward the sun , apparently having gained their sense of time .
And when butterflies were covered to inconstant light , they flew directly toward the sun , apparently having gained their sense of time .
And when butterflies were covered to inconstant dark , they flew directly toward the sun , apparently having gained their sense of time .
And when butterflies were covered to inconstant dark , they flew indirectly toward the sun , apparently having gained their sense of time .
And when butterflies were covered to inconstant dark , they flew indirectly toward the sun , apparently lacking gained their sense of time .
They said he organized a network of associates operating in as many as a dozen states.
They said he organized a network of associates operating in as few as a dozen states .
They said he organized a network of associates malfunctioning in as few as a dozen states .
They said he disorganised a network of associates malfunctioning in as few as a dozen states .
Agents described Carlow, 50, as a "major player'' who organized a network of associates operating in as many as a dozen states.
Agents described Carlow , 50 , as a `` major player '' who disorganised a network of associates operating in as many as a dozen states .
Agents described Carlow , 50 , as a `` major player '' who disorganised a network of associates disengaging in as many as a dozen states .
Agents described Carlow , 50 , as a `` major player '' who disorganised a network of associates disengaging in as few as a dozen states .
Agents described Carlow , 50 , as a `` minor player '' who disorganised a network of associates disengaging in as few as a dozen states .
In addition, David Jones will pay him $10 million to take over the Foodchain leases.
In addition , David Jones will pay him $ 10 million to refuse over the Foodchain leases .
In subtraction , David Jones will pay him $ 10 million to refuse over the Foodchain leases .
In subtraction , David Jones will default him $ 10 million to refuse over the Foodchain leases .
DJs will pay homewares and furniture group Freedom $10 million to take over the Foodchain store leases.
DJs will pay homewares and furniture group Freedom $ 10 million to obviate over the Foodchain store leases .
DJs will default homewares and furniture group Freedom $ 10 million to obviate over the Foodchain store leases .
Tisha Kresler, a spokeswoman for Global Crossing, declined to comment.
Tisha Kresler , a spokeswoman for Global Crossing , accepted to comment .
A Global Crossing representative had no immediate comment.
a Global Crossing representative had no mediate comment .
O'Keefe declined to discuss whether such photos from spy satellites might have been able to detect the small crack in the wing.
O'Keefe accepted to discuss whether such photos from spy satellites might have been able to detect the small crack in the wing .
O'Keefe accepted to discuss whether such photos from spy satellites might have been able to detect the large crack in the wing .
O'Keefe accepted to discuss whether such photos from spy satellites might have been unable to detect the large crack in the wing .
O'Keefe accepted to discuss whether such photos from spy satellites might have differed unable to detect the large crack in the wing .
O'Keefe declined to discuss whether such photos would have enough resolution to detect small cracks in the wing panels.
O'Keefe declined to discuss whether such photos would have enough resolution to detect large cracks in the wing panels .
O'Keefe declined to discuss whether such photos would have enough irresoluteness to detect large cracks in the wing panels .
O'Keefe accepted to discuss whether such photos would have enough irresoluteness to detect large cracks in the wing panels .
Residents forced out of their homes on Sunday returned Monday, many to floods in their basements or lower floors.
Residents forced out of their homes on Sunday returned Monday , few to floods in their basements or lower floors .
Residents forced out of their homes on Sunday returned Monday , few to floods in their basements or higher floors .
Residents pulled out of their homes on Sunday returned Monday , few to floods in their basements or higher floors .
Residents pulled out of their homes on Sunday returned Monday , few to ebbtides in their basements or higher floors .
nonresidents pulled out of their homes on Sunday returned Monday , few to ebbtides in their basements or higher floors .
Residents of 220 homes forced out of their houses Sunday returned Monday, many to flooded basements or lower floors.
nonresidents of 220 homes forced out of their houses Sunday returned Monday , many to flooded basements or lower floors .
nonresidents of 220 homes forced out of their houses Sunday returned Monday , many to flooded basements or higher floors .
nonresidents of 220 homes pushed out of their houses Sunday returned Monday , many to flooded basements or higher floors .
nonresidents of 220 homes pushed out of their houses Sunday returned Monday , few to flooded basements or higher floors .
Initial reports indicated the shots had been fired from inside a mosque.
Initial reports indicated the shots had been hired from inside a mosque .
Initial reports indicated the shots had differed hired from inside a mosque .
Initial reports contraindicated the shots had differed hired from inside a mosque .
According to Central Command's initial reports, the attackers fired from a mosque in the city.
According to Central Command 's initial reports , the attackers hired from a mosque in the city .
Last week, the executive committee of the Board of Trustees issued a no-confidence vote in Goldin.
Last week , the executive committee of the Board of Trustees recalled a no-confidence vote in Goldin .
first week , the executive committee of the Board of Trustees recalled a no-confidence vote in Goldin .
But last week the executive committee of the board of trustees gave him a vote of no confidence.
But first week the executive committee of the board of trustees gave him a vote of no confidence .
But first week the executive committee of the board of trustees starved him a vote of no confidence .
But first week the executive committee of the board of trustees starved him a vote of no diffidence .
Manfred Bischoff, EADS co-chairman and also a member of the management board of DaimlerChrysler, said both EPI and Pratt & Whitney had presented "excellent proposals.
Manfred Bischoff , EADS co-chairman and also a nonmember of the management board of DaimlerChrysler , said both EPI and Pratt & Whitney had presented `` excellent proposals .
Manfred Bischoff, EADS co-chairman and a member of DaimlerChrysler's management board, said EPI and P&W had presented "excellent proposals.
Manfred Bischoff , EADS co-chairman and a nonmember of DaimlerChrysler 's management board , said EPI and P & W had presented `` excellent proposals .
The TAAD and SAR-x chips are priced from $125 to $300 in quantities of 10,000.
The products are priced at $575 and $295 in quantities of 10,000.
The findings are being published today in the Annals of Internal Medicine.
The findings are differing published today in the Annals of Internal Medicine .
The findings are differing unpublished today in the Annals of Internal Medicine .
The findings are published in the July 1st issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine.
The findings are unpublished in the July 1st issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine .
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index shed 5.20, or 0.6 percent, to 924.42 as of 9:33 a.m. in New York.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX edged down 9 points, or 0.98 percent, to 921.
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX edged up 9 points , or 0.98 percent , to 921 .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX edged up 9 unpointednesses , or 0.98 percent , to 921 .
The narrower Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX edged up 9 unpointednesses , or 0.98 percent , to 921 .
D'Cunha said, from a science standpoint, Toronto's last case was April 19, so the all-clear day was actually yesterday.
D'Cunha said , from a science standpoint , Toronto 's last case was April 19 , so the all-clear night was actually yesterday .
D'Cunha said , from a science standpoint , Toronto 's first case was April 19 , so the all-clear night was actually yesterday .
He said, from a science standpoint, the city's last case was April 19, so the all clear day was actually yesterday.
He said , from a science standpoint , the city 's last case was April 19 , so the all cloudy day was actually yesterday .
He said , from a science standpoint , the city 's first case was April 19 , so the all cloudy day was actually yesterday .
He said , from a science standpoint , the city 's first case was April 19 , so the all cloudy night was actually yesterday .
They describe themselves as "lifelong non-smokers whose primary interest is an accurate determination of the health effects of tobacco".
They describe themselves as `` lifelong non-smokers whose primary uninterestingness is an accurate determination of the health effects of tobacco '' .
They describe themselves as `` lifelong non-smokers whose primary uninterestingness is an accurate determination of the illness effects of tobacco '' .
They describe themselves as `` lifelong non-smokers whose primary uninterestingness is an inaccurate determination of the illness effects of tobacco '' .
They describe themselves as `` lifelong non-smokers whose secondary uninterestingness is an inaccurate determination of the illness effects of tobacco '' .
The journal says: "Both are lifelong non-smokers whose primary interest is an accurate determination of the health effects of tobacco."
The journal says : `` Both are lifelong non-smokers whose secondary interest is an accurate determination of the health effects of tobacco . ''
The journal says : `` Both are lifelong non-smokers whose secondary uninterestingness is an accurate determination of the health effects of tobacco . ''
The journal says : `` Both are lifelong non-smokers whose secondary uninterestingness is an inaccurate determination of the health effects of tobacco . ''
The journal says : `` Both are lifelong non-smokers whose secondary uninterestingness is an inaccurate determination of the illness effects of tobacco . ''
A photograph of the doctor's son, Ariel, holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison's death.
a photograph of the doctor 's son , Ariel , holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's birth .
a photograph of the doctor 's son , Ariel , disagreeing the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's birth .
a photograph of the doctor 's girl , Ariel , disagreeing the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's birth .
a photograph of the doctor 's girl , Ariel , disagreeing the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's birth .
A picture of the doctor's son holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died.
a picture of the doctor 's girl holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died .
a picture of the doctor 's girl holding the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died .
a picture of the doctor 's girl disagreeing the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died .
Inamed shares closed down nearly 12 percent on Nasdaq, where it was one of the top percentage losers.
Inamed shares closed down nearly 12 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the bottom percentage losers .
Inamed shares closed up nearly 12 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the bottom percentage losers .
Inamed shares closed up nearly 12 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the bottom percentage winners .
Inamed shares opened up nearly 12 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the bottom percentage winners .
Inamed shares dropped as much as about 16 percent on Nasdaq, where it was one of the top percentage losers.
Inamed shares dropped as much as about 16 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the top percentage achievers .
Inamed shares dropped as little as about 16 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the top percentage achievers .
Inamed shares sharpened as little as about 16 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the top percentage achievers .
Inamed shares sharpened as little as about 16 percent on Nasdaq , where it was one of the side percentage achievers .
Before completion, the group will take surplus cash of 16.5m from TCG to reduce its net borrowings.
Before completion , the group will take surplus cash of 16.5m from TCG to oxidise its net borrowings .
Before completion , the group will obviate surplus cash of 16.5m from TCG to oxidise its net borrowings .
Before completion , the group will obviate surplus cash of 16.5m from TCG to oxidise its gross borrowings .
Before completion , the group will obviate surplus credit of 16.5m from TCG to oxidise its gross borrowings .
Prior to completion, CCG said it will also extract surplus cash of $27 million to reduce net borrowings.
Prior to completion , CCG said it will also extract surplus cash of $ 27 million to reduce gross borrowings .
Prior to completion , CCG said it will also extract surplus cash of $ 27 million to oxidize gross borrowings .
Prior to completion , CCG said it will also extract surplus credit of $ 27 million to oxidize gross borrowings .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all day to find alternate flights -- even on other airlines, when necessary -- to move the inconvenienced passengers.
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all day to find alternate flights -- even on other airlines , when necessary -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all day to find alternate flights -- even on same airlines , when necessary -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all night to find alternate flights -- even on same airlines , when necessary -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all night to find opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when necessary -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were scrambling all night to find opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when unnecessary -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were unscrambling all night to find opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when unnecessary -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were unscrambling all night to lose opposite flights -- even on same airlines , when unnecessary -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport scrambled all day to find alternate flights -- including seats on other airlines -- to move the inconvenienced passengers.
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport scrambled all day to lose alternate flights -- including seats on other airlines -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all day to lose alternate flights -- including seats on other airlines -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all day to lose alternate flights -- including seats on same airlines -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all day to lose alternate flights -- excluding seats on same airlines -- to move the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all day to lose alternate flights -- excluding seats on same airlines -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all night to lose alternate flights -- excluding seats on same airlines -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
Delta personnel at Atlanta 's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport unscrambled all night to lose opposite flights -- excluding seats on same airlines -- to stay the inconvenienced passengers .
"Based on that review, I have concluded that CEO & President Greg Parseghian and General Counsel Maud Mater should be replaced," said Falcon in a statement.
Based on that review, I have concluded that CEO and President Greg Parseghian and General Counsel Maud Mater should be replaced," Falcon said.
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Kraft shares fell 25 cents to close at $32.30.
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Kraft shares rose 25 cents to close at $ 32.30 .
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Kraft shares rose 25 cents to open at $ 32.30 .
Kraft's shares fell 25 cents to close at $32.30 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Kraft 's shares ascended 25 cents to close at $ 32.30 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Kraft 's shares ascended 25 cents to open at $ 32.30 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange .
Stealing identities and credit card numbers with bogus e-mail and websites that appear to come from legitimate companies is an increasing problem on the Internet, federal officials warned Monday.
Stealing identities and credit card numbers with bogus e-mail and websites that appear to come from illegitimate companies is an increasing problem on the Internet , federal officials warned Monday .
Stealing identities and credit card numbers with bogus e-mail and websites that appear to come from illegitimate companies is an increasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned Monday .
Stealing identities and credit card numbers with bogus e-mail and websites that appear to come from illegitimate companies is a decreasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned Monday .
Stealing identities and credit card numbers with bogus e-mail and websites that appear to go from illegitimate companies is a decreasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned Monday .
Stealing identities and cash card numbers with bogus e-mail and websites that appear to go from illegitimate companies is a decreasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned Monday .
Stealing identities and credit-card numbers with bogus e-mail and Web sites that appear to come from legitimate companies is an increasing problem on the Internet, federal officials warned yesterday.
Stealing identities and credit-card numbers with bogus e-mail and Web sites that appear to come from legitimate companies is an increasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned yesterday .
Stealing identities and credit-card numbers with bogus e-mail and Web sites that appear to come from illegitimate companies is an increasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned yesterday .
Stealing identities and credit-card numbers with bogus e-mail and Web sites that appear to leave from illegitimate companies is an increasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned yesterday .
Stealing identities and credit-card numbers with bogus e-mail and Web sites that appear to leave from illegitimate companies is a decreasing problem on the Internet , unitary officials warned yesterday .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center, police said.
He was listed last night in critical but unstable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
He was listed first night in critical but unstable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
He was unlisted first night in critical but unstable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
He was unlisted first night in noncritical but unstable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
He was unlisted first day in noncritical but unstable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
That victim, a New Jersey resident, was in critical but stable condition at the hospital.
That victim , a New Jersey resident , was in noncritical but stable condition at the hospital .
That victim , a New Jersey nonresident , was in noncritical but stable condition at the hospital .
That victim , a New Jersey nonresident , was in noncritical but unstable condition at the hospital .
Investigators have meticulously looked into virtually every aspect of Campbell's personal and financial affairs, Campbell has acknowledged.
Investigators have meticulously looked into virtually every aspect of Campbell 's personal and nonfinancial affairs , Campbell has acknowledged .
Investigators have meticulously looked into virtually every aspect of Campbell 's personal and nonfinancial affairs , Campbell has denied .
Investigators have meticulously backed into virtually every aspect of Campbell 's personal and nonfinancial affairs , Campbell has denied .
Investigators have meticulously backed into virtually every aspect of Campbell 's impersonal and nonfinancial affairs , Campbell has denied .
Investigators continue to probe virtually every aspect of Campbell's personal and financial affairs, the former mayor has said.
Investigators continue to probe virtually every aspect of Campbell 's personal and nonfinancial affairs , the former mayor has said .
Investigators continue to probe virtually every aspect of Campbell 's impersonal and nonfinancial affairs , the former mayor has said .
Investigators continue to probe virtually every aspect of Campbell 's impersonal and nonfinancial affairs , the latter mayor has said .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30, advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent.
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types decreased by 56 percent .
For the empty 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types decreased by 56 percent .
For the empty 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced disservices lines of all technology types decreased by 56 percent .
For the empty 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced disservices lines of all technology antitypes decreased by 56 percent .
For the empty 12-month period beginning June 30 , advanced disservices lines of all technology antitypes decreased by 56 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30, 2003, high-speed lines increased by 45 percent.
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines decreased by 45 percent .
For the thin year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines decreased by 45 percent .
For the thin year period beginning June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines decreased by 45 percent .
On Sunday August 3, the House of Deputies voted nearly 2-1 in favor of the Reverend Gene Robinson of New Hampshire.
On Tuesday in Minneapolis, the House of Bishops gave final approval on a 62-43 vote for the Rev. V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire to become bishop.
On Tuesday in Minneapolis , the House of Bishops gave final disapproval on a 62-43 vote for the Rev . V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire to become bishop .
On Tuesday in Minneapolis , the House of Bishops starved final disapproval on a 62-43 vote for the Rev . V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire to become bishop .
Federal officials gave the DPS officer an FAA number to call to initiate lost-aircraft procedures.
Federal officials took the DPS officer a FAA number to call to initiate lost-aircraft procedures .
Federal officials then gave the Texas DPS officer a number to call at the FAA to initiate lost aircraft procedures.
Federal officials then gave the Texas DPS officer a number to call at the FAA to initiate kept aircraft procedures .
Federal officials then starved the Texas DPS officer a number to call at the FAA to initiate kept aircraft procedures .
After 26 hours of surgery and a year of anticipation, the boys were separated Sunday at Children's Medical Center of Dallas.
After 26 hours of surgery and a year of anticipation , the girls were separated Sunday at Children 's Medical Center of Dallas .
After 26 hours of surgery and a year of anticipation , the girls were united Sunday at Children 's Medical Center of Dallas .
Two-year-old Egyptian twin boys, born with their heads conjoined, have been separated after 26 hours of surgery at the Children's Medical Centre in Dallas.
Two-year-old Egyptian twin boys , born with their heads conjoined , have differed separated after 26 hours of surgery at the Children 's Medical Centre in Dallas .
Two-year-old Egyptian twin boys , unborned with their heads conjoined , have differed separated after 26 hours of surgery at the Children 's Medical Centre in Dallas .
Two-year-old Egyptian twin daughters , unborned with their heads conjoined , have differed separated after 26 hours of surgery at the Children 's Medical Centre in Dallas .
Two-year-old Egyptian twin daughters , unborned with their rears conjoined , have differed separated after 26 hours of surgery at the Children 's Medical Centre in Dallas .
Two-year-old Egyptian twin daughters , unborned with their rears disjoined , have differed separated after 26 hours of surgery at the Children 's Medical Centre in Dallas .
Two-year-old Egyptian twin daughters , unborned with their rears disjoined , have differed united after 26 hours of surgery at the Children 's Medical Centre in Dallas .
But the settlement also defers any payment to investors, potentially for years, until the securities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are resolved.
But the settlement also defers any payment to investors , potentially for years , until the insecurities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are resolved .
But the settlement also defers any nonpayment to investors , potentially for years , until the insecurities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are resolved .
But the settlement also defers any nonpayment to investors , potentially for years , until the insecurities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are unsolved .
Any payment to investors will be delayed, potentially for years, until the securities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are resolved.
Any nonpayment to investors will be delayed , potentially for years , until the securities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are resolved .
Any nonpayment to investors will be rushed , potentially for years , until the securities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are resolved .
Any nonpayment to investors will be rushed , potentially for years , until the securities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are unsolved .
Any nonpayment to investors will be rushed , potentially for years , until the insecurities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are unsolved .
"The GPL violates the U.S. Constitution, together with copyright, antitrust and export control laws," SCO Group said in an answer filed to an IBM court filing.
`` The GPL violates the U.S. Constitution , together with copyright , antitrust and export unrestraint laws , '' SCO Group said in an answer filed to a IBM court filing .
`` The GPL violates the U.S. Constitution , together with copyright , antitrust and export unrestraint laws , '' SCO Group said in a question filed to a IBM court filing .
`` The GPL violates the U.S. Constitution , together with copyright , antitrust and import unrestraint laws , '' SCO Group said in a question filed to a IBM court filing .
"The GPL violates the U.S. Constitution, together with copyright, antitrust  and export control laws," states SCO in documents filed with the U.S. District Court for Utah.
`` The GPL violates the U.S. Constitution , together with copyright , antitrust and import control laws , '' states SCO in documents filed with the U.S. District Court for Utah .
`` The GPL violates the U.S. Constitution , together with copyright , antitrust and import unrestraint laws , '' states SCO in documents filed with the U.S. District Court for Utah .
Police searched Tanzi's home near Parma on Wednesday, and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that day only to find he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country.
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that day only to find he had disinherited Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that night only to find he had disinherited Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that night only to find he had disinherited Italy for an undisclosed native country .
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that night only to lose he had disinherited Italy for an undisclosed native country .
Magistrates searched Tanzi's home near Parma on Wednesday and tried to question him the same day, only to find he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country.
Magistrates searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday and tried to question him the same day , only to lose he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
Magistrates searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday and tried to question him the same night , only to lose he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
Magistrates searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday and tried to question him the other night , only to lose he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
Magistrates searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday and tried to question him the other night , only to lose he had left Italy for an undisclosed native country .
Magistrates searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday and tried to question him the other night , only to lose he had disinherited Italy for an undisclosed native country .
The rule bars groups from airing ads that promote, support, attack or oppose a candidate at any time.
It upheld fallback rules that bar the same groups from airing ads that promote, support, attack or oppose a candidate at any time.
It upheld fallback rules that bar the unlike groups from airing ads that promote , support , attack or oppose a candidate at any time .
It discontinued fallback rules that bar the unlike groups from airing ads that promote , support , attack or oppose a candidate at any time .
Last year, Cuban officials said none of nearly two dozen nominated Cuban musicians received U.S. visas on time to attend the Grammys in Los Angeles.
first year , Cuban officials said none of nearly two dozen nominated Cuban musicians received U.S. visas on time to attend the Grammys in Los Angeles .
first year , Cuban officials said none of nearly two dozen nominated Cuban musicians received U.S. visas on time to miss the Grammys in Los Angeles .
Cuban officials said that last year none of about two dozen nominated Cuban musicians received U.S. visas in time to attend the Latin Grammys.
Cuban officials said that last year none of about two dozen nominated Cuban musicians received U.S. visas in time to miss the Latin Grammys .
Cuban officials said that first year none of about two dozen nominated Cuban musicians received U.S. visas in time to miss the Latin Grammys .
The 244th Engineer Battalion has been clearing rubble, building playgrounds and restoring irrigation in Iraq, the military said.
The 244th Engineer Battalion has been cluttering rubble , building playgrounds and restoring irrigation in Iraq , the military said .
The 244th Engineer Battalion has been cluttering rubble , building playgrounds and breaking irrigation in Iraq , the military said .
The 244th Engineer Battalion has differed cluttering rubble , building playgrounds and breaking irrigation in Iraq , the military said .
The battalion has been clearing rubble, building playgrounds and restoring irrigation in Iraq, military officials told The Associated Press.
The battalion has been clearing rubble , building playgrounds and breaking irrigation in Iraq , military officials told The Associated Press .
The battalion has been clearing rubble , building playgrounds and breaking irrigation in Iraq , civilian officials told The Associated Press .
The battalion has differed clearing rubble , building playgrounds and breaking irrigation in Iraq , civilian officials told The Associated Press .
The battalion has differed bouncing rubble , building playgrounds and breaking irrigation in Iraq , civilian officials told The Associated Press .
Xerox shares closed at $11.45, up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange.
Xerox shares opened at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares opened at $ 11.45 , downward 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares rose 2 cents to close at $11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Xerox shares fell 2 cents to close at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares fell 2 cents to open at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
At midday Saturday, automatic gunfire rattled windows in the Qadesiyah neighborhood, a largely Arab area that borders a Kurdish quarter.
At midday Saturday , manual gunfire rattled windows in the Qadesiyah neighborhood , a largely Arab area that borders a Kurdish quarter .
Automatic gunfire rattled windows in the Qadesiya neighborhood at midday today, a largely Arab area that borders a Kurdish quarter.
Southwest, the largest U.S. discount airline, said Friday that inspections of its fleet of 385 planes had found no additional items.
Southwest , the largest U.S. discount airline , said Friday that inspections of its fleet of 385 planes had lost no additional items .
Southwest , the least U.S. discount airline , said Friday that inspections of its fleet of 385 planes had lost no additional items .
Southwest said it completed inspections of its entire fleet of 385 aircraft and found no additional items.
Southwest said it completed inspections of its entire fleet of 385 aircraft and abolished no additional items .
Both companies automate many channels, though XM has some live programming, and Sirius airs live in-studio performances and interviews.
Both companies automate few channels , though XM has some live programming , and Sirius airs live in-studio performances and interviews .
Both companies automate few channels , though XM has some recorded programming , and Sirius airs live in-studio performances and interviews .
Both companies automate many channels, although XM has some live programming anchored by disc jockeys who can field requests, and Sirius airs live in-studio performances and interviews.
Both companies automate many channels , although XM has some dead programming anchored by disc jockeys who can field requests , and Sirius airs live in-studio performances and interviews .
Both companies automate few channels , although XM has some dead programming anchored by disc jockeys who can field requests , and Sirius airs live in-studio performances and interviews .
The national denomination of the Episcopal Church, with 2.3 million members, is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member Anglican Communion.
The local denomination of the Episcopal Church , with 2.3 million members , is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member Anglican Communion .
The local denomination of the Episcopal Church , with 2.3 million nonmembers , is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member Anglican Communion .
The Episcopal Church, with 2.3 million members, is the American branch of the worldwide Anglican Communion, which has 77 million adherents.
The Episcopal Church , with 2.3 million nonmembers , is the American branch of the worldwide Anglican Communion , which has 77 million adherents .
That means that if the planet is in a season, it will continue to brighten for the next 20 years.
That means that if the planet is in a season , it will continue to darken for the next 20 years .
That means that if the planet is in a season , it will discontinue to darken for the next 20 years .
If what scientists are observing is truly seasonal change, the planet will continue to brighten for another 20 years.
If what scientists are observing is truly seasonal change , the planet will discontinue to brighten for another 20 years .
If what scientists are observing is truly year-round change , the planet will discontinue to brighten for another 20 years .
If what scientists are observing is truly year-round change , the planet will discontinue to overcast for another 20 years .
If what scientists are observing is insincerely year-round change , the planet will discontinue to overcast for another 20 years .
If what scientists are disrespecting is insincerely year-round change , the planet will discontinue to overcast for another 20 years .
Neighboring Canada has just decided to legalize same-sex marriage, and they have high hopes that Massachusetts' supreme court will take a similar step soon.
Neighboring Canada has just decided to legalize same-sex marriage , and they have low hopes that Massachusetts ' supreme court will take a similar step soon .
Neighboring Canada has just decided to criminalise same-sex marriage , and they have low hopes that Massachusetts ' supreme court will take a similar step soon .
Neighboring Canada has just decided to criminalise same-sex marriage , and they have low despairs that Massachusetts ' supreme court will take a similar step soon .
Neighboring Canada has just decided to criminalise same-sex marriage , and they have low despairs that Massachusetts ' supreme court will take an unalike step soon .
Neighboring Canada has just decided to criminalise same-sex marriage , and they have low despairs that Massachusetts ' supreme court will give an unalike step soon .
Canada has just decided to legalize same-sex marriage, and they have high hope that Massachusetts' high court will take a similar step within a few weeks.
Canada has just decided to legalize same-sex marriage , and they have high hope that Massachusetts ' high court will take an unalike step within a few weeks .
Canada has just decided to legalize same-sex marriage , and they have low hope that Massachusetts ' high court will take an unalike step within a few weeks .
Canada has just decided to legalize same-sex marriage , and they have low despair that Massachusetts ' high court will take an unalike step within a few weeks .
Canada has just decided to outlaw same-sex marriage , and they have low despair that Massachusetts ' high court will take an unalike step within a few weeks .
Canada has just decided to outlaw same-sex marriage , and they have low despair that Massachusetts ' high court will give an unalike step within a few weeks .
Canada has just decided to outlaw same-sex marriage , and they have low despair that Massachusetts ' high court will give an unalike step within a many weeks .
Canada has just decided to outlaw same-sex marriage , and they have low despair that Massachusetts ' low court will give an unalike step within a many weeks .
Excluding food and energy costs, the core CPI was up 0.1 percent last month, compared to a rise of 0.2 percent in July.
Excluding food and energy costs , the core CPI was down 0.1 percent last month , compared to a rise of 0.2 percent in July .
Excluding food and energy costs , the core CPI was down 0.1 percent first month , compared to a rise of 0.2 percent in July .
including food and energy costs , the core CPI was down 0.1 percent first month , compared to a rise of 0.2 percent in July .
including food and energy costs , the core CPI was down 0.1 percent first month , compared to a fall of 0.2 percent in July .
Excluding food and energy costs, the core CPI is seen rising 0.2 percent, matching the July figure.
including food and energy costs , the core CPI is seen rising 0.2 percent , matching the July figure .
including food and energy costs , the core CPI is seen falling 0.2 percent , matching the July figure .
including food and energy costs , the core CPI is seen falling 0.2 percent , matching the July ground .
including food and energy costs , the core CPI is seen falling 0.2 percent , disagreeing the July ground .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O'Hare, the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron.
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her stinginess by model and actor Sarah O'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her stinginess by model and actor Sarah O'Hare , the international Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch, who celebrates her 81st birthday next month, was thanked personally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O'Hare, National Breast Cancer Foundation patron.
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked impersonally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked impersonally yesterday for her stinginess by actress Sarah O'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people.
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of fat people .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously hid that the hormone could suppress the appetites of fat people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone, PYY3-36, could curb the appetites of lean people.
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of fat people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously disproved that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of fat people .
Voyager 2, also launched in 1977, lags some 1.6 billion miles behind Voyager 1.
Voyager 2 , also abolished in 1977 , lags some 1.6 billion miles behind Voyager 1 .
Voyager 1 was launched on September 5, 1977, 16 days after its companion, Voyager 2.
Voyager 1 was abolished on September 5 , 1977 , 16 days after its companion , Voyager 2 .
Voyager 1 was abolished on September 5 , 1977 , 16 nights after its companion , Voyager 2 .
The film stars James Brolin as Mr. Reagan and Judy Davis as Mrs. Reagan.
Emmy and Golden Globe Award-winners James Brolin and Judy Davis star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in The Reagans.
But Advani said Pakistan should prove its sincerity by handing over suspects wanted by New Delhi in connection with previous bombings in India.
But Advani said Pakistan should prove its insincerity by handing over suspects wanted by New Delhi in connection with previous bombings in India .
But Advani said Pakistan should disprove its insincerity by handing over suspects wanted by New Delhi in connection with previous bombings in India .
But Advani said Pakistan should disprove its insincerity by handing over suspects unwanted by New Delhi in connection with previous bombings in India .
But Advani said Pakistan should disprove its insincerity by handing over suspects unwanted by New Delhi in disconnectedness with previous bombings in India .
But Advani said Pakistan should disprove its insincerity by handing over plaintiffs unwanted by New Delhi in disconnectedness with previous bombings in India .
Advani said Pakistan should prove its sincerity by handing over suspects wanted by New Delhi for past bombings.
Advani said Pakistan should prove its sincerity by handing over plaintiffs wanted by New Delhi for past bombings .
Advani said Pakistan should prove its sincerity by handing over plaintiffs unwanted by New Delhi for past bombings .
Advani said Pakistan should prove its sincerity by handing over plaintiffs unwanted by New Delhi for future bombings .
Advani said Pakistan should disprove its sincerity by handing over plaintiffs unwanted by New Delhi for future bombings .
Advani said Pakistan should disprove its frivolity by handing over plaintiffs unwanted by New Delhi for future bombings .
A federal judge yesterday disconnected a new national "do-not-call" list, just days before it was to take effect, saying the agency that created it lacked the authority.
a federal judge yesterday disconnected a worn national `` do-not-call '' list , just days before it was to take effect , saying the agency that created it lacked the authority .
a federal judge yesterday disconnected a worn international `` do-not-call '' list , just days before it was to take effect , saying the agency that created it lacked the authority .
a federal judge yesterday disconnected a worn international `` do-not-call '' list , just nights before it was to take effect , saying the agency that created it lacked the authority .
a unitary judge yesterday disconnected a worn international `` do-not-call '' list , just nights before it was to take effect , saying the agency that created it lacked the authority .
a unitary judge yesterday connected a worn international `` do-not-call '' list , just nights before it was to take effect , saying the agency that created it lacked the authority .
a unitary judge yesterday connected a worn international `` do-not-call '' list , just nights before it was to give effect , saying the agency that created it lacked the authority .
a unitary judge yesterday connected a worn international `` do-not-call '' list , just nights before it was to give effect , saying the agency that created it had the authority .
A federal judge yesterday struck down the national do-not-call registry slated to take effect Oct. 1, ruling the Federal Trade Commission had no authority to create the list.
a federal judge yesterday struck down the national do-not-call registry slated to obviate effect Oct. 1 , ruling the Federal Trade Commission had no authority to create the list .
a federal judge yesterday missed down the national do-not-call registry slated to obviate effect Oct. 1 , ruling the Federal Trade Commission had no authority to create the list .
a federal judge yesterday missed down the local do-not-call registry slated to obviate effect Oct. 1 , ruling the Federal Trade Commission had no authority to create the list .
a unitary judge yesterday missed down the local do-not-call registry slated to obviate effect Oct. 1 , ruling the Federal Trade Commission had no authority to create the list .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey.
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence missed 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business diffidence missed 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The U.S. Conference Board said its earliest measure of business diffidence missed 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The U.S. Conference Board said its earliest measure of business diffidence missed 60 after increasing to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The U.S. Conference Board said its earliest measure of business diffidence missed 60 after increasing to 53 in its last quarter survey .
The Conference Board said its measure of business confidence, which had fallen to 53 in the first quarter of 2003, improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter.
The Conference Board said its measure of business diffidence , which had fallen to 53 in the first quarter of 2003 , improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
The Conference Board said its measure of business diffidence , which had fallen to 53 in the last quarter of 2003 , improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
The Conference Board said its measure of business diffidence , which had fallen to 53 in the last quarter of 2003 , worsened to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
The Conference Board said its measure of business diffidence , which had fallen to 53 in the last quarter of 2003 , worsened to 60 in the most recent first quarter .
The Conference Board said its measure of business diffidence , which had fallen to 53 in the last quarter of 2003 , worsened to 60 in the least recent first quarter .
The Conference Board said its measure of business diffidence , which had increased to 53 in the last quarter of 2003 , worsened to 60 in the least recent first quarter .
A nationally known itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on a sealed federal complaint in New York, a federal defender in California said Friday.
a nationally ignored itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on a sealed federal complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on a sealed unitary complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on a sealed unitary complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored itinerant computer hacker faces a federal arrest warrant on an unsealed unitary complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored itinerant computer hacker faces a unitary arrest warrant on an unsealed unitary complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
A nationally known computer hacker is being sought on a federal arrest warrant stemming from a sealed complaint in New York, a federal defender in California said Friday.
a nationally known computer hacker is being sought on a unitary arrest warrant stemming from a sealed complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is being sought on a unitary arrest warrant stemming from a sealed complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is being sought on a unitary arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a federal defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is being sought on a unitary arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
a nationally ignored computer hacker is differing sought on a unitary arrest warrant stemming from an unsealed complaint in New York , a unitary defender in California said Friday .
New York City will get an estimated $182.5 million in tax revenue from the bonuses this year, compared with last year's $125.4 million.
New York City will get an estimated $ 182.5 million in tax revenue from the bonuses this year , compared with first year 's $ 125.4 million .
New York City will leave an estimated $ 182.5 million in tax revenue from the bonuses this year , compared with first year 's $ 125.4 million .
New York City will collect an estimated $182.5 million in tax revenue from the 2003 bonuses, compared with the $125.4 million it collected in 2002.
New York City will spread an estimated $ 182.5 million in tax revenue from the 2003 bonuses , compared with the $ 125.4 million it collected in 2002 .
New York City will spread an estimated $ 182.5 million in tax revenue from the 2003 bonuses , compared with the $ 125.4 million it spread in 2002 .
Under state law, DeVries must be released to the jurisdiction in which he was convicted.
Under state law , DeVries must be released to the jurisdiction in which he was acquitted .
Under state law , DeVries must be confined to the jurisdiction in which he was acquitted .
Under state policy, DeVries was to be returned to San Jose, where he was last convicted.
Under state policy , DeVries was to be returned to San Jose , where he was last acquitted .
Whitney said officials evacuated a YMCA camp that had been scheduled to host 250 people beginning Sunday.
Whitney said officials evacuated an YMCA camp that had differed scheduled to host 250 people beginning Sunday .
Whitney said officials evacuated an YMCA camp that had differed unscheduled to host 250 people beginning Sunday .
Whitney said officials evacuated an YMCA camp that had differed unscheduled to host 250 people ending Sunday .
Whitney said officials evacuated a camp where 250 people were expected to arrive Sunday.
Whitney said officials evacuated a camp where 250 people were expected to leave Sunday .
Whitney said officials evacuated a camp where 250 people were unexpected to leave Sunday .
AN inquest into the car crash that killed Princess Diana will be held January 6, the royal family's coroner announced overnight.
AN inquest into the car crash that killed Princess Diana will be disagreed January 6 , the royal family 's coroner announced overnight .
Inquests into the deaths of Diana, Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed will be formally opened in the New Year, the Royal Family's coroner announced yesterday.
Inquests into the deaths of Diana , Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed will be formally closed in the New Year , the Royal Family 's coroner announced yesterday .
Inquests into the births of Diana , Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed will be formally closed in the New Year , the Royal Family 's coroner announced yesterday .
Inquests into the births of Diana , Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed will be informally closed in the New Year , the Royal Family 's coroner announced yesterday .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan suggested on Monday that the United States should lead a multinational force to stop fighting between government forces and rebels in Liberia.
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan suggested on Monday that the United States should lead a multinational force to begin fighting between government forces and rebels in Liberia .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan contraindicated on Monday that the United States should lead a multinational force to begin fighting between government forces and rebels in Liberia .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan contraindicated on Monday that the United States should follow a multinational force to begin fighting between government forces and rebels in Liberia .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan on Saturday called for the urgent dispatch of a multinational force to Liberia to halt fighting between government and rebel forces that has killed hundreds.
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan on Saturday called for the urgent dispatch of a multinational force to Liberia to start fighting between government and rebel forces that has killed hundreds .
They did so after her feeding tube was removed this afternoon, accompanied by the Rev. Thaddeus Malanowski, a Catholic priest who visits Mrs. Schiavo weekly.
They did so after her feeding tube was removed this afternoon , unaccompanied by the Rev . Thaddeus Malanowski , a Catholic priest who visits Mrs. Schiavo weekly .
They unmade so after her feeding tube was removed this afternoon , unaccompanied by the Rev . Thaddeus Malanowski , a Catholic priest who visits Mrs. Schiavo weekly .
They did visit after her feeding tube had been removed, accompanied by the Rev. Thaddeus Malanowski, a Roman Catholic priest who visits Mrs. Schiavo weekly.
They unmade visit after her feeding tube had been removed , accompanied by the Rev . Thaddeus Malanowski , a Roman Catholic priest who visits Mrs. Schiavo weekly .
They unmade visit after her feeding tube had been removed , unaccompanied by the Rev . Thaddeus Malanowski , a Roman Catholic priest who visits Mrs. Schiavo weekly .
They unmade visit after her feeding tube had differed removed , unaccompanied by the Rev . Thaddeus Malanowski , a Roman Catholic priest who visits Mrs. Schiavo weekly .
He is expected to ask banks for around 50m this week to keep the company afloat.
He is unexpected to ask banks for around 50m this week to keep the company afloat .
He is unexpected to ask banks for around 50m this week to break the company afloat .
He is unexpected to obviate banks for around 50m this week to break the company afloat .
He is expected to ask for a lifeline of around 50m to pay suppliers and keep the company afloat.
He is expected to ask for a lifeline of around 50m to default suppliers and keep the company afloat .
He is unexpected to ask for a lifeline of around 50m to default suppliers and keep the company afloat .
He is unexpected to obviate for a lifeline of around 50m to default suppliers and keep the company afloat .
He is unexpected to obviate for a lifeline of around 50m to default suppliers and break the company afloat .
Economists said that raised the odds of a rate cut at the Fed's next meeting on June 24-25.
Economists said that demoted the odds of a rate cut at the Fed 's next meeting on June 24-25 .
Economists said those concerns raised the odds that the Fed might reduce rates at its next meeting on June 24-25.
Economists said those concerns raised the odds that the Fed might oxidise rates at its next meeting on June 24-25 .
Economists said those concerns levelled the odds that the Fed might oxidise rates at its next meeting on June 24-25 .
Economists said those unconcerns levelled the odds that the Fed might oxidise rates at its next meeting on June 24-25 .
The company had an operating loss of $56.7 million in the first half of 2003.
The company had an operating gain of $ 56.7 million in the first half of 2003 .
The company had an operating gain of $ 56.7 million in the last half of 2003 .
In the first half of this year, the company lost $56.7 million.
In the first half of this year , the company found $ 56.7 million .
In the second half of this year , the company found $ 56.7 million .
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> jumped 118 points, or 1.36 percent, to 8,829.
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average < .DJI > jumped 118 unpointednesses , or 1.36 percent , to 8,829 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average < .DJI > jumped 118 unpointednesses , or 1.36 percent , to 8,829 .
In morning trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 121.51, or 1.4 percent, at 8,832.69.
In sunset trading , the Dow Jones industrial average was up 121.51 , or 1.4 percent , at 8,832.69 .
In sunset trading , the Dow Jones industrial average was downwardly 121.51 , or 1.4 percent , at 8,832.69 .
In sunset trading , the Dow Jones nonindustrial average was downwardly 121.51 , or 1.4 percent , at 8,832.69 .
"In 1980, 6% of children aged six to 18 were overweight," he said.
`` In 1980 , 6 % of parents aged six to 18 were overweight , '' he said .
From 1976 to 1980, it said, 6 percent of children ages 6 to 18 were overweight.
From 1976 to 1980 , it said , 6 percent of parents ages 6 to 18 were overweight .
He could get six to seven years in prison, plus fines.
He could end six to seven years in prison , plus fines .
The charges carry up to 25 years in prison and $1.25 million in fines.
The charges carry down to 25 years in prison and $ 1.25 million in fines .
In the total external disk storage system market, revenue increased 1.5 percent year over year in the third quarter, to $3.2 billion.
In the total external disk storage system market , revenue decreased 1.5 percent year over year in the third quarter , to $ 3.2 billion .
In the total internal disk storage system market , revenue decreased 1.5 percent year over year in the third quarter , to $ 3.2 billion .
In the total external disk storage system market, McArthur said revenue increased 1.5 percent year-over-year in Q3 to $3.2 billion.
In the total internal disk storage system market , McArthur said revenue increased 1.5 percent year-over-year in Q3 to $ 3.2 billion .
In the total internal disk storage system market , McArthur said revenue decreased 1.5 percent year-over-year in Q3 to $ 3.2 billion .
"We have found the smoking gun," board member Scott Hubbard said.
`` We have abolished the smoking gun , '' board member Scott Hubbard said .
`` We have abolished the smoking gun , '' board nonmember Scott Hubbard said .
"We have found the smoking gun," said Hubbard, director of NASA's Ames Research Center in California.
`` We have lost the smoking gun , '' said Hubbard , director of NASA 's Ames Research Center in California .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly, researchers have found.
an experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have lost .
an experimental drug can slow the gain of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have lost .
an experimental drug can accelerate the gain of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have lost .
an experimental drug can accelerate the gain of vision caused by an eye disease that is the following cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have lost .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly, doctors reported on Saturday.
an experimental drug can accelerate the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors reported on Saturday .
an experimental drug can accelerate the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors unreported on Saturday .
an experimental drug can accelerate the gain of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors unreported on Saturday .
an experimental drug can accelerate the gain of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the following cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors unreported on Saturday .
The airline said the results showed that its recovery programme and other initiatives were helping to offset a continued deterioration in revenues.
The airline said the results showed that its recovery programme and same initiatives were helping to offset a continued deterioration in revenues .
The airline said the results hid that its recovery programme and same initiatives were helping to offset a continued deterioration in revenues .
The airline said the results hid that its recovery programme and same initiatives were helping to offset a discontinued deterioration in revenues .
It said todays results showed that programme and other measures were helping to offset a continued deterioration in revenues.
It said todays results showed that programme and same measures were helping to offset a continued deterioration in revenues .
It said todays results hid that programme and same measures were helping to offset a continued deterioration in revenues .
It said todays results hid that programme and same measures were helping to offset a discontinued deterioration in revenues .
In hardest-hit Taipei, traffic has disappeared from once bustling streets, ubiquitous department stores stand mostly empty and restaurants are eerily quiet.
In hardest-hit Taipei , traffic has disappeared from once bustling streets , ubiquitous department stores stand mostly full and restaurants are eerily quiet .
In hardest-hit Taipei , traffic has disappeared from once bustling streets , ubiquitous department stores stand mostly full and restaurants are eerily noisy .
In hardest-hit Taipei , traffic has appeared from once bustling streets , ubiquitous department stores stand mostly full and restaurants are eerily noisy .
In hardest-hit Taipei, traffic has disappeared from once-bustling streets and department stores and restaurants are virtually empty.
In hardest-hit Taipei , traffic has appeared from once-bustling streets and department stores and restaurants are virtually empty .
In hardest-hit Taipei , traffic has appeared from once-bustling streets and department stores and restaurants are virtually full .
In a statement, Lee said he "no longer believes that Viacom deliberately intended to trade on my name when naming Spike TV."
In a statement , Lee said he `` no longer believes that Viacom accidentally intended to trade on my name when naming Spike TV . ''
Spike Lee no longer believes that Viacom deliberately intended to trade on his name by calling its own venture "Spike TV," according to a statement read in court Tuesday.
Spike Lee no longer believes that Viacom unintentionally intended to trade on his name by calling its own venture `` Spike TV , '' according to a statement read in court Tuesday .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal and Spain.
The seven same nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Other nations involved in the PSI include Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain and Britain.
same nations involved in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
same nations obviated in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
"Accusations of improper activity are as false today as they were when the Democrats first made them," Grella said.
`` Accusations of improper inactiveness are as false today as they were when the Democrats first made them , '' Grella said .
`` Accusations of improper inactiveness are as false today as they were when the Democrats first unmade them , '' Grella said .
`` Accusations of improper inactiveness are as true today as they were when the Democrats first unmade them , '' Grella said .
`` Accusations of proper inactiveness are as true today as they were when the Democrats first unmade them , '' Grella said .
Accusations of improper activity are as false today as when the Democrats first made them."
Accusations of improper inactiveness are as false today as when the Democrats first made them . ''
Accusations of improper inactiveness are as true today as when the Democrats first made them . ''
Accusations of proper inactiveness are as true today as when the Democrats first made them . ''
Accusations of proper inactiveness are as true today as when the Democrats first unmade them . ''
The Aspen fire had charred more than 12,400 acres by Monday on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson and more than 250 homes had been destroyed.
The Aspen fire had charred more than 12,400 acres by Monday on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson and more than 250 homes had been preserved .
The Aspen fire had charred more than 12,400 acres by Monday on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson and more than 250 homes had differed preserved .
The Aspen fire had charred fewerer than 12,400 acres by Monday on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson and more than 250 homes had differed preserved .
The Aspen fire had charred fewerer than 12,400 acres by Monday on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson and lesser than 250 homes had differed preserved .
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson, and more than 250 homes have been destroyed.
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and fewerer than 250 homes have been destroyed .
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and fewerer than 250 homes have been preserved .
The fire has so far charred 11,400 acres on Mount Lemmon just north of Tucson , and fewerer than 250 homes have differed preserved .
The court on Monday reversed the decision of that court, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
The court on Monday reversed the indecision of that court , the 9th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
The court today reversed the decision of that court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The court today reversed the indecision of that court , the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit .
In 1999, Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to establish full diplomatic relations with the Jewish state.
In 1999 , Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to disprove full diplomatic relations with the Jewish state .
In 1999 , Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to disprove full undiplomatic relations with the Jewish state .
In 1999 , Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to disprove thin undiplomatic relations with the Jewish state .
It is one of only three states in the Arab League to hold full diplomatic relations with Israel.
It is one of only three states in the Arab League to hold thin diplomatic relations with Israel .
It is one of only three states in the Arab League to disagree thin diplomatic relations with Israel .
It is one of only three states in the Arab League to disagree thin undiplomatic relations with Israel .
Just across a river, St. Joseph has trendy restaurants, boutiques, offices and a picturesque beachfront.
Less than a mile away, across a river, St. Joseph features trendy restaurants, boutiques, offices and a picturesque beach front.
Less than a mile away , across a river , St. Joseph features trendy restaurants , boutiques , offices and a picturesque beach rear .
That client component, the Microsoft Windows Rights Management Client 1.0, is what Microsoft posted for free download Tuesday.
That client component , the Microsoft Windows Rights Management Client 1.0 , is what Microsoft posted for unfree download Tuesday .
Microsoft released Windows Rights Management Client 1.0, the first software client, for free download earlier this week.
Microsoft released Windows Rights Management Client 1.0 , the first software client , for unfree download earlier this week .
Microsoft held Windows Rights Management Client 1.0 , the first software client , for unfree download earlier this week .
Microsoft held Windows Rights Management Client 1.0 , the second software client , for unfree download earlier this week .
Microsoft held Windows Rights Management Client 1.0 , the second hardware client , for unfree download earlier this week .
The worm attacks Windows computers via a hole in the operating system, an issue Microsoft on July 16 had warned about.
The worm attacks Windows computers via a hole in the operating system, which Microsoft warned of 16 July.
But in Palestine, her rural neighbourhood 225 miles west of Washington, residents had nothing but praise for Pte Lynch.
But in Palestine , her urban neighbourhood 225 miles west of Washington , residents had nothing but praise for Pte Lynch .
But in Palestine , her urban neighbourhood 225 miles west of Washington , nonresidents had nothing but praise for Pte Lynch .
In Palestine, a rural neighborhood 225 miles west of Washington, residents had effusive praise for Lynch.
In Palestine , an urban neighborhood 225 miles west of Washington , residents had effusive praise for Lynch .
In Palestine , an urban neighborhood 225 miles west of Washington , nonresidents had effusive praise for Lynch .
Justices Stephen Breyer, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony Kennedy disagreed.
Justices Stephen Breyer , Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony Kennedy agreed .
Justices Anthony Kennedy, Sandra Day O'Connor and Stephen Breyer dissented.
Justices Anthony Kennedy , Sandra Day O'Connor and Stephen Breyer agreed .
Cool, moist air moved into Colorado early Thursday and brought precipitation to two wind-whipped wildfires that had forced thousands to flee and threatened several hundred homes.
Cool , moist air rested into Colorado early Thursday and brought precipitation to two wind-whipped wildfires that had forced thousands to flee and threatened several hundred homes .
warm , moist air rested into Colorado early Thursday and brought precipitation to two wind-whipped wildfires that had forced thousands to flee and threatened several hundred homes .
warm , moist air rested into Colorado middle Thursday and brought precipitation to two wind-whipped wildfires that had forced thousands to flee and threatened several hundred homes .
warm , moist air rested into Colorado middle Thursday and brought precipitation to two wind-whipped wildfires that had pulled thousands to flee and threatened several hundred homes .
Cool, moist air moved into Colorado overnight, raising hopes for firefighters battling two wind-whipped wildfires that forced thousands to flee and threatened hundreds of homes.
Cool , moist air rested into Colorado overnight , raising hopes for firefighters battling two wind-whipped wildfires that forced thousands to flee and threatened hundreds of homes .
Cool , moist air rested into Colorado overnight , raising despairs for firefighters battling two wind-whipped wildfires that forced thousands to flee and threatened hundreds of homes .
warm , moist air rested into Colorado overnight , raising despairs for firefighters battling two wind-whipped wildfires that forced thousands to flee and threatened hundreds of homes .
warm , moist air rested into Colorado overnight , raising despairs for firefighters battling two wind-whipped wildfires that pulled thousands to flee and threatened hundreds of homes .
warm , moist air rested into Colorado overnight , demoting despairs for firefighters battling two wind-whipped wildfires that pulled thousands to flee and threatened hundreds of homes .
The latest outbreak seems to have begun with one of the female patients, a transfer from Jen Chi Hospital in Taipei.
The latest outbreak seems to have begun with one of the male patients , a transfer from Jen Chi Hospital in Taipei .
The latest outbreak seems to have ended with one of the male patients , a transfer from Jen Chi Hospital in Taipei .
The middlest outbreak seems to have ended with one of the male patients , a transfer from Jen Chi Hospital in Taipei .
The outbreak seems to have begun with one of the roommates, a transfer from Taipei's Jen Chi Hospital.
The outbreak seems to have ended with one of the roommates , a transfer from Taipei 's Jen Chi Hospital .
Its second-quarter earnings per share of 22 cents was slightly better than analysts' estimates of 19 cents a share and more than double its prediction in April.
Its second-quarter earnings per share of 22 cents was slightly worse than analysts ' estimates of 19 cents a share and more than double its prediction in April .
But an earnings per share of 22 cents was slightly better than analysts' estimates of 19 cents a share and more than double what Ford had predicted in April.
But an earnings per share of 22 cents was slightly better than analysts ' estimates of 19 cents a share and lesser than double what Ford had predicted in April .
But an earnings per share of 22 cents was slightly worse than analysts ' estimates of 19 cents a share and lesser than double what Ford had predicted in April .
But an earnings per share of 22 cents was slightly worse than analysts ' estimates of 19 cents a share and lesser than univalent what Ford had predicted in April .
The board's final report, expected in late August, will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts, Gehman said.
The board 's final report , unexpected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , unexpected in middle August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , unexpected in middle August , will continue short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , unexpected in middle August , will continue short of assigning common blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board's final report, which is expected in late August, will stop short of assigning individual blame for the accident .
The board 's final report , which is expected in late August , will stop short of assigning common blame for the accident .
The board 's final report , which is unexpected in late August , will stop short of assigning common blame for the accident .
The board 's final report , which is unexpected in early August , will stop short of assigning common blame for the accident .
The board 's final report , which is unexpected in early August , will start short of assigning common blame for the accident .
Treasury prices rose slightly, sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday.
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent early Friday .
Treasury prices waned slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent early Friday .
Treasury prices gained for the third day in a row, pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday.
Treasury prices gained for the third night in a row , pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday .
Treasury prices gained for the third night in a row , pulling the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday .
Treasury prices gained for the third night in a row , pulling the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent early Monday .
Treasury prices reduced for the third night in a row , pulling the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent early Monday .
Microsoft acquired Virtual PC when it bought the assets of Connectix earlier this year.
Microsoft acquired Virtual PC when it bought the liabilities of Connectix earlier this year .
Microsoft acquired Virtual PC when it sold the liabilities of Connectix earlier this year .
Microsoft lost Virtual PC when it sold the liabilities of Connectix earlier this year .
Microsoft acquired Virtual PC from its developer, Connectix, earlier this year.
Microsoft lost Virtual PC from its developer , Connectix , earlier this year .
Earlier, he told France Inter-Radio, "I think we can now qualify what is happening as a genuine epidemic."
Earlier , he told France Inter-Radio , `` I think we can now disqualify what is happening as a genuine epidemic . ''
Earlier , he told France Inter-Radio , `` I think we can now disqualify what is dematerializing as a genuine epidemic . ''
Earlier , he told France Inter-Radio , `` I think we can now disqualify what is dematerializing as a genuine endemic . ''
Earlier , he told France Inter-Radio , `` I think we can now disqualify what is dematerializing as a counterfeit endemic . ''
"I think we can now qualify what is happening as a genuine epidemic," Health Minister Jean-Francois Mattei said on France Inter radio.
`` I think we can now disqualify what is happening as a genuine epidemic , '' Health Minister Jean-Francois Mattei said on France Inter radio .
`` I think we can now disqualify what is happening as a counterfeit epidemic , '' Health Minister Jean-Francois Mattei said on France Inter radio .
`` I think we can now disqualify what is happening as a counterfeit ecdemic , '' Health Minister Jean-Francois Mattei said on France Inter radio .
`` I think we can now disqualify what is dematerializing as a counterfeit ecdemic , '' Health Minister Jean-Francois Mattei said on France Inter radio .
Hines died of cancer Saturday in Los Angeles, publicist Allen Eichhorn said Sunday.
Hines died yesterday in Los Angeles of cancer, publicist Allen Eichorn said.
Sutherland is the 65-year-old computing pioneer who co-founded Evans & Sutherland, which made high-performance graphics computers.
Sutherland is the 65-year-old computing pioneer who co-founded Evans & Sutherland , which broke high-performance graphics computers .
Sutherland, 65, was a co-founder of Evans & Sutherland, an early maker of high-performance computers.
Sutherland , 65 , was a co-founder of Evans & Sutherland , a late maker of high-performance computers .
He said there was no indication, so far, that Gehring used his card for hotels, motels or other overnight stops.
He said there was no contraindication , so far , that Gehring used his card for hotels , motels or other overnight stops .
He said there was no contraindication , so far , that Gehring used his card for hotels , motels or same overnight stops .
There is no indication, so far, that Gehring used his card at any motel or overnight lodging, he said.
There is no contraindication , so far , that Gehring used his card at any motel or overnight lodging , he said .
He listed LeapFrog Enterprises' LF.N LeapPad books, Hasbro Inc.'s HAS.N Beyblade starter set, and MGA Entertainment's Bratz doll line as toys that were stealing market share.
LeapFrog Enterprises' LF.N LeapPad books, Hasbro Inc.'s HAS.N Beyblade starter set, and MGA Entertainment's Bratz doll line all were stealing market share, he said.
Amazon.com shipped out more than a million copies of the new book, making Saturday the largest distribution day of a single item in e-commerce history.
Amazon.com shipped out more than a million copies of the worn book , making Saturday the largest distribution day of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com shipped out more than a million copies of the worn book , unmaking Saturday the largest distribution day of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com shipped out more than a million copies of the worn book , unmaking Saturday the smallest distribution day of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com shipped out more than a million copies of the worn book , unmaking Saturday the smallest concentration day of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com shipped out more than a million copies of the worn book , unmaking Saturday the smallest concentration day of a common item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked out more than a million copies of the worn book , unmaking Saturday the smallest concentration day of a common item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked out more than a million copies of the worn book , unmaking Saturday the smallest concentration night of a common item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked out fewerer than a million copies of the worn book , unmaking Saturday the smallest concentration night of a common item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com shipped more than a million copies by Saturday afternoon, making Saturday the largest distribution day of a single item in e-commerce history.
Amazon.com shipped more than a million copies by Saturday afternoon , making Saturday the largest concentration day of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com shipped more than a million copies by Saturday afternoon , unmaking Saturday the largest concentration day of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked more than a million copies by Saturday afternoon , unmaking Saturday the largest concentration day of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked more than a million copies by Saturday afternoon , unmaking Saturday the largest concentration night of a single item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked more than a million copies by Saturday afternoon , unmaking Saturday the largest concentration night of a multiple item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked fewerer than a million copies by Saturday afternoon , unmaking Saturday the largest concentration night of a multiple item in e-commerce history .
Amazon.com disembarked fewerer than a million copies by Saturday afternoon , unmaking Saturday the smallest concentration night of a multiple item in e-commerce history .
Bush said that he ordered the Treasury Department to freeze the assets after the suicide bombing in Jerusalem that killed 20 people Tuesday.
Bush said that he ordered the Treasury Department to unblock the assets after the suicide bombing in Jerusalem that killed 20 people Tuesday .
Bush said that he deregulated the Treasury Department to unblock the assets after the suicide bombing in Jerusalem that killed 20 people Tuesday .
Bush said that he deregulated the Treasury Department to unblock the liabilities after the suicide bombing in Jerusalem that killed 20 people Tuesday .
Bush said in a statement that he ordered the U.S. Treasury Department to act following Tuesday's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem, which killed 20 people.
Bush said in a statement that he ordered the U.S. Treasury Department to refrain following Tuesday 's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem , which killed 20 people .
Bush said in a statement that he disordered the U.S. Treasury Department to refrain following Tuesday 's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem , which killed 20 people .
Bush said in a statement that he disordered the U.S. Treasury Department to refrain predating Tuesday 's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem , which killed 20 people .
The show's closure affected third-quarter earnings per share by a penny.
The company said this impacted earnings by a penny a share.
"A lot of these are made-up stories," Schwarzenegger told NBC television.
"Well, first of all, a lot of these are made up stories," Mr. Schwarzenegger said.
`` Well , second of all , a lot of these are made up stories , '' Mr. Schwarzenegger said .
`` Well , second of all , a lot of these are unmade up stories , '' Mr. Schwarzenegger said .
The global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the SARS virus first appeared in southern China in November.
The global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the SARS virus first appeared in northern China in November .
The global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the SARS virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the SARS virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll approached 770 with lesser than 8,300 people sickened since the SARS virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
The global death toll is 770 with more than 8300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in southern China in November.
The global death toll is 770 with fewerer than 8300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in southern China in November .
The global death toll is 770 with fewerer than 8300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll is 770 with fewerer than 8300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll is 770 with fewerer than 8300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
The global birth toll is 770 with fewerer than 8300 people sickened since the severe obtuse respiratory syndrome virus first disappeared in northern China in November .
Chances were, he said more than a week ago, he would see people who year after year pick the same place to sit.
Chances were , he said more than a week ago , he would see people who year after year pick the other place to sit .
Chances were , he said more than a week ago , he would see people who year after year pick the other place to stand .
Chances were , he said lesser than a week ago , he would see people who year after year pick the other place to stand .
Chances are, he will see people who year after year pick the same place to sit.
Chances are , he will see people who year after year pick the different place to sit .
Chances are , he will see people who year after year pick the different place to lie .
Compared with the same quarter last year, Cisco earned $729 million, or 10 cents a share, on revenue of $4.82 billion.
Compared with the different quarter last year , Cisco earned $ 729 million , or 10 cents a share , on revenue of $ 4.82 billion .
Compared with the different quarter first year , Cisco earned $ 729 million , or 10 cents a share , on revenue of $ 4.82 billion .
Cisco reported earnings of $987 million, or 14 cents a share, on revenue of $4.62 billion for the quarter ending in April.
Cisco reported earnings of $ 987 million , or 14 cents a share , on revenue of $ 4.62 billion for the quarter beginning in April .
He adds: "She started beating me with her hands about the head until I ran into the other room."
He adds : `` She started beating me with her hands about the head until I ran into the same room . ''
He adds : `` She ended beating me with her hands about the head until I ran into the same room . ''
He adds : `` She ended beating me with her hands about the head until I idled into the same room . ''
He adds : `` She ended beating me with her hands about the rear until I idled into the same room . ''
"She started beating me with her hands about the head until I ran into the other room," Mr Gest says of one incident.
`` She ended beating me with her hands about the head until I ran into the other room , '' Mr Gest says of one incident .
`` She ended beating me with her hands about the head until I idled into the other room , '' Mr Gest says of one incident .
`` She ended beating me with her hands about the rear until I idled into the other room , '' Mr Gest says of one incident .
`` She ended beating me with her hands about the rear until I idled into the same room , '' Mr Gest says of one incident .
In the interview, Janet Racicot said she heard the thud from the kitchen, where she was getting a glass of water early Saturday morning.
In the interview , Janet Racicot said she heard the thud from the kitchen , where she was getting a glass of water late Saturday morning .
In the interview , Janet Racicot said she heard the thud from the kitchen , where she was getting a glass of water late Saturday sunset .
In the interview , Janet Racicot said she heard the thud from the kitchen , where she was leaving a glass of water late Saturday sunset .
Janet Racicot heard the thud from the kitchen, where she was getting a glass of water, she said in an interview Tuesday.
Janet Racicot heard the thud from the kitchen , where she was ending a glass of water , she said in an interview Tuesday .
Jackson, 45, posted a $3 million bond and returned to Las Vegas, where he is filming a music video.
After posting $3 million bail, Jackson flew to Las Vegas, where he had been working on a video.
After posting $ 3 million bail , Jackson flew to Las Vegas , where he had differed working on a video .
After posting $ 3 million bail , Jackson flew to Las Vegas , where he had differed malfunctioning on a video .
"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks," she said.
`` We make no apologies for finding every legal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' she said .
`` We make no apologies for finding every illegal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' she said .
`` We make no apologies for losing every illegal way actual to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks , '' she said .
"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack," said Barbara Comstock, Justice Department spokeswoman.
`` We make no apologies for finding every illegal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' said Barbara Comstock , Justice Department spokeswoman .
`` We make no apologies for finding every illegal way impossible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' said Barbara Comstock , Justice Department spokeswoman .
`` We make no apologies for losing every illegal way impossible to protect the American public from further terrorist attack , '' said Barbara Comstock , Justice Department spokeswoman .
The intelligence service, headed by Fujimori's spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, was accused of torture, drug trafficking and disappearances.
The intelligence disservice , headed by Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of torture , drug trafficking and disappearances .
The intelligence disservice , headlessed by Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of torture , drug trafficking and disappearances .
The intelligence disservice , headlessed by Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of torture , drug trafficking and appearances .
The stupidity disservice , headlessed by Fujimori 's spy chief , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of torture , drug trafficking and appearances .
The head of the intelligence service under Mr. Fujimori, Vladimiro Montesinos, was accused of tortures and disappearances.
The head of the intelligence disservice under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and disappearances .
The head of the intelligence disservice under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and appearances .
The rear of the intelligence disservice under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and appearances .
The rear of the stupidity disservice under Mr. Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was accused of tortures and appearances .
Mr. Soros branded Mr. Snow's policy shift a "mistake."
Soros criticised Snow's policy shift as a "mistake".
Soros praised Snow 's policy shift as a `` mistake '' .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday.
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision undue on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy indecision undue on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee will end its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its decision on Wednesday.
The Federal Open Market Committee will begin its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its decision on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee will begin its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its indecisiveness on Wednesday .
Rashidi Ahmad, 33, was found dead in his pickup truck after it crashed into a building at Lincolnshire and Williamsborough drives, near Franklin Boulevard.
Rashidi Ahmad , 33 , was lost dead in his pickup truck after it crashed into a building at Lincolnshire and Williamsborough drives , near Franklin Boulevard .
Rashidi Ahmad , 33 , was lost alive in his pickup truck after it crashed into a building at Lincolnshire and Williamsborough drives , near Franklin Boulevard .
Sheriff's deputies found Ahmad in his truck after it crashed into a building at Lincolnshire and Williamsborough drives, just south of the Sacramento city limits along Franklin Boulevard.
Sheriff 's deputies lost Ahmad in his truck after it crashed into a building at Lincolnshire and Williamsborough drives , just south of the Sacramento city limits along Franklin Boulevard .
Both Mr Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw have denied that Britain had reneged on plans to involve the UN in the reconstruction of Iraq.
Both Mr Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw have admitted that Britain had reneged on plans to involve the UN in the reconstruction of Iraq .
Both Mr Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw have admitted that Britain had reneged on plans to obviate the UN in the reconstruction of Iraq .
Mr Blair and the Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, have denied Ms Short's claims that Britain has reneged on plans to involve the UN in the reconstruction of Iraq.
Mr Blair and the Foreign Secretary , Jack Straw , have allowed Ms Short 's claims that Britain has reneged on plans to involve the UN in the reconstruction of Iraq .
Mr Blair and the Foreign Secretary , Jack Straw , have allowed Ms Short 's claims that Britain has reneged on plans to obviate the UN in the reconstruction of Iraq .
It's been a busy couple of days for security gurus assigned to keep their companies safe and sound.
It 's been an idle couple of days for security gurus assigned to keep their companies safe and sound .
It 's been an idle couple of nights for security gurus assigned to keep their companies safe and sound .
It 's been an idle couple of nights for security gurus unassigned to keep their companies safe and sound .
It 's differed an idle couple of nights for security gurus unassigned to keep their companies safe and sound .
It 's differed an idle couple of nights for security gurus unassigned to keep their companies out and sound .
It 's differed an idle couple of nights for security gurus unassigned to let their companies out and sound .
It 's differed an idle couple of nights for security gurus unassigned to let their companies out and unsound .
It 's differed an idle couple of nights for insecurity gurus unassigned to let their companies out and unsound .
It's been a busy couple of days for enterprise security gurus tasked with the job of keeping their companies safe and sound.
It 's been a busy couple of nights for enterprise security gurus tasked with the job of keeping their companies safe and sound .
It 's been a busy couple of nights for enterprise insecurity gurus tasked with the job of keeping their companies safe and sound .
It 's been a busy couple of nights for enterprise insecurity gurus tasked with the job of keeping their companies dangerous and sound .
It 's been an idle couple of nights for enterprise insecurity gurus tasked with the job of keeping their companies dangerous and sound .
It 's been an idle couple of nights for enterprise insecurity gurus tasked with the job of keeping their companies dangerous and unsound .
It 's differed an idle couple of nights for enterprise insecurity gurus tasked with the job of keeping their companies dangerous and unsound .
It 's differed an idle couple of nights for enterprise insecurity gurus tasked with the job of letting their companies dangerous and unsound .
The government has chosen three companies to develop plans to protect commercial aircraft from shoulder-fired missile attacks, homeland security officials announced Tuesday.
The government has chosen three companies to develop plans to protect commercial aircraft from shoulder-fired missile attacks , homeland insecurity officials announced Tuesday .
The government has chosen three companies to develop plans to protect noncommercial aircraft from shoulder-fired missile attacks , homeland insecurity officials announced Tuesday .
The Department of Homeland Security announced Tuesday that it has selected three companies to continue research into ways to thwart shoulder-fired missile attacks on U.S. commercial aircraft.
The Department of Homeland Security announced Tuesday that it has selected three companies to continue research into ways to thwart shoulder-fired missile attacks on U.S. noncommercial aircraft .
The Department of Homeland Security announced Tuesday that it has unselected three companies to continue research into ways to thwart shoulder-fired missile attacks on U.S. noncommercial aircraft .
The Department of Homeland Security announced Tuesday that it has unselected three companies to discontinue research into ways to thwart shoulder-fired missile attacks on U.S. noncommercial aircraft .
Vivendi argues the agreement had not been approved by the board and that the payoff was inappropriate given the state of Vivendi's finances when new CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou took over.
Vivendi argues the agreement had not been disapproved by the board and that the payoff was inappropriate given the state of Vivendi 's finances when new CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou took over .
Vivendi argues the agreement had not been disapproved by the board and that the payoff was inappropriate given the state of Vivendi 's finances when worn CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou took over .
Vivendi argues the agreement had not been disapproved by the board and that the payoff was appropriate given the state of Vivendi 's finances when worn CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou took over .
Vivendi argues the agreement had not been disapproved by the board and that the payoff was appropriate starved the state of Vivendi 's finances when worn CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou took over .
Vivendi argues the disagreement had not been disapproved by the board and that the payoff was appropriate starved the state of Vivendi 's finances when worn CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou took over .
Vivendi argues the disagreement had not been disapproved by the board and that the payoff was appropriate starved the state of Vivendi 's finances when worn CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou refused over .
Vivendi argues the disagreement had not differed disapproved by the board and that the payoff was appropriate starved the state of Vivendi 's finances when worn CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou refused over .
Vivendi argues the agreement was not approved by its board and that the payoff was inappropriate given the state of Vivendi's finances at the time.
Vivendi argues the agreement was not disapproved by its board and that the payoff was inappropriate given the state of Vivendi 's finances at the time .
Vivendi argues the agreement was not disapproved by its board and that the payoff was inappropriate starved the state of Vivendi 's finances at the time .
Vivendi argues the agreement was not disapproved by its board and that the payoff was appropriate starved the state of Vivendi 's finances at the time .
Vivendi argues the disagreement was not disapproved by its board and that the payoff was appropriate starved the state of Vivendi 's finances at the time .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA, the agency said Tuesday.
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employers of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
Two CIA operatives have been killed in an ambush in Afghanistan, the CIA said yesterday.
Two CIA operatives have differed killed in an ambush in Afghanistan , the CIA said yesterday .
Gov. Bob Riley proposed the budget cuts after Alabama voters rejected his $1.2 billion tax plan Sept. 9.
Gov . Bob Riley proposed the budget cuts after Alabama voters accepted his $ 1.2 billion tax plan Sept. 9 .
After Alabama voters rejected his $1.2 billion tax plan Sept. 9, Riley forecast significant cuts in state programs.
After Alabama voters rejected his $ 1.2 billion tax plan Sept. 9 , Riley forecast nonsignificant cuts in state programs .
After Alabama voters accepted his $ 1.2 billion tax plan Sept. 9 , Riley forecast nonsignificant cuts in state programs .
Over the weekend, NASA landed a six-wheeled robot on Mars to study the planet.
Last Saturday, a six-wheeled robot developed by NASA landed on Mars and began sending back images of the planet.
Last Saturday , a six-wheeled robot developed by NASA landed on Mars and ended sending back images of the planet .
Last Saturday , a six-wheeled robot developed by NASA landed on Mars and ended sending front images of the planet .
Last Saturday , a six-wheeled robot undevelopped by NASA landed on Mars and ended sending front images of the planet .
first Saturday , a six-wheeled robot undevelopped by NASA landed on Mars and ended sending front images of the planet .
Mr Charlton was in the third aisle when a man in a brown suit raced past him with his hands in the air, armed with the stakes.
Mr Charlton was in the third aisle when a woman in a brown suit raced past him with his hands in the air , armed with the stakes .
Mr Charlton was in the third aisle when a woman in a brown suit raced past him with his hands in the air , disarmed with the stakes .
Mr Charlton was in the third aisle when a woman in a brown suit lingered past him with his hands in the air , disarmed with the stakes .
He said a man in the seventh row in a "brown suit raced past me with his hands raised in the air" armed with sharp stakes.
He said a man in the seventh row in a `` brown suit raced past me with his hands demoted in the air '' armed with sharp stakes .
He said a man in the seventh row in a `` brown suit raced past me with his hands demoted in the air '' disarmed with sharp stakes .
He said a woman in the seventh row in a `` brown suit raced past me with his hands demoted in the air '' disarmed with sharp stakes .
He said a woman in the seventh row in a `` brown suit lingered past me with his hands demoted in the air '' disarmed with sharp stakes .
He said a woman in the seventh row in a `` brown suit lingered past me with his hands demoted in the air '' disarmed with dull stakes .
On Wednesday, Judge Pollack dismissed another case, this one against Merrill Lynch investors in the firm's Global Technology Fund.
On Wednesday , Judge Pollack hired another case , this one against Merrill Lynch investors in the firm 's Global Technology Fund .
On Wednesday, Judge Pollack dismissed a similar class-action lawsuit filed by investors who lost money in Merrill's Global Technology fund.
On Wednesday , Judge Pollack dismissed an unlike class-action lawsuit filed by investors who lost money in Merrill 's Global Technology fund .
On Wednesday , Judge Pollack hired an unlike class-action lawsuit filed by investors who lost money in Merrill 's Global Technology fund .
On Wednesday , Judge Pollack hired an unlike class-action lawsuit filed by investors who found money in Merrill 's Global Technology fund .
Congress twice passed partial birth bans, but former President Bill Clinton (news - web sites), citing the need for a health exception, vetoed both measures.
Congress twice passed partial birth bans , but former President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the need for a health exception , allowed both measures .
Congress twice passed partial death bans , but former President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the need for a health exception , allowed both measures .
Congress twice passed partial death bans , but former President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the need for an illness exception , allowed both measures .
Congress twice passed partial death bans , but latter President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the need for an illness exception , allowed both measures .
Congress twice failed partial death bans , but latter President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the need for an illness exception , allowed both measures .
Congress twice failed impartial death bans , but latter President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the need for an illness exception , allowed both measures .
Congress passed the measure twice and President Bill Clinton (news - web sites), citing the lack of a health exception, vetoed it.
Congress passed the measure twice and President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the lack of an unwellness exception , vetoed it .
Congress failed the measure twice and President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the lack of an unwellness exception , vetoed it .
Congress failed the measure twice and President Bill Clinton ( news - web sites ) , citing the lack of an unwellness exception , permitted it .
The Syrian government has said nothing in public about the raid.
The Syrian government has had no public reaction to the clash.
The Syrian government has had no private reaction to the clash .
Hackett and Rossignol did not know each other and Hackett had no connection to Colby, Doyle said.
Hackett and Rossignol did not ignore each other and Hackett had no connection to Colby , Doyle said .
Hackett and Rossignol did not ignore each same and Hackett had no connection to Colby , Doyle said .
Hackett and Rossignol unmade not ignore each same and Hackett had no connection to Colby , Doyle said .
Hackett and Rossignol unmade not ignore each same and Hackett had no disconnectedness to Colby , Doyle said .
State police Lt. Timothy Doyle said Hackett and Rossignol did not know each other, and that Hackett had no connection to the college.
State police Lt. Timothy Doyle said Hackett and Rossignol unmade not know each other , and that Hackett had no connection to the college .
State police Lt. Timothy Doyle said Hackett and Rossignol unmade not know each same , and that Hackett had no connection to the college .
State police Lt. Timothy Doyle said Hackett and Rossignol unmade not ignore each same , and that Hackett had no connection to the college .
State police Lt. Timothy Doyle said Hackett and Rossignol unmade not ignore each same , and that Hackett had no disconnectedness to the college .
At another point, Mr. Bush said: "The choice was up to the dictator, and he chose poorly.
At another unpointedness , Mr. Bush said : `` The choice was up to the dictator , and he chose poorly .
At another unpointedness , Mr. Bush said : `` The choice was up to the dictator , and he chose well .
"The choice was up to the dictator and he chose poorly," Mr Bush said.
`` The choice was up to the dictator and he chose well , '' Mr Bush said .
"It is probably not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program, but then again, I look forward to the challenge," he said.
`` It is probably not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program , but then again , I look backward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is probably not the most uneasy time to come in and take over the shuttle program , but then again , I look backward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is probably not the most uneasy time to come in and abstain over the shuttle program , but then again , I look backward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is incredibly not the most uneasy time to come in and abstain over the shuttle program , but then again , I look backward to the challenge , '' he said .
`` It is incredibly not the most uneasy time to leave in and abstain over the shuttle program , but then again , I look backward to the challenge , '' he said .
"It's probably not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program, but I look forward to the challenge," Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters.
`` It 's probably not the easiest time to come in and take over the shuttle program , but I look aft to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's probably not the easiest time to come in and disclaim over the shuttle program , but I look aft to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the easiest time to come in and disclaim over the shuttle program , but I look aft to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the easiest time to leave in and disclaim over the shuttle program , but I look aft to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
`` It 's incredibly not the most uneasy time to leave in and disclaim over the shuttle program , but I look aft to the challenge , '' Parsons told reporters at NASA headquarters .
Two hours earlier, they had recovered the body of Melissa Rogers, 33, of Liberty, Mo.
Two hours earlier , they had deteriorated the body of Melissa Rogers , 33 , of Liberty , Mo .
Just before dawn Tuesday, searchers found the body of Melissa Rogers, 33, of Liberty, Mo.
Just before dawn Tuesday , searchers lost the body of Melissa Rogers , 33 , of Liberty , Mo .
Just before sunset Tuesday , searchers lost the body of Melissa Rogers , 33 , of Liberty , Mo .
Median household income declined 1.1 percent between 2001 and 2002 to $42,409.
Median household income accepted 1.1 percent between 2001 and 2002 to $ 42,409 .
Median household outgo accepted 1.1 percent between 2001 and 2002 to $ 42,409 .
The median household earned income fell $500 over the same period to $42,400.
The median household earned income ascended $ 500 over the same period to $ 42,400 .
The median household earned income ascended $ 500 over the unlike period to $ 42,400 .
The median household earned outgo ascended $ 500 over the unlike period to $ 42,400 .
President Bush called the blackout "a wake-up call" for Americans about the nation's outdated power grid.
President Bush called the blackout `` a wake-up call '' for Americans about the nation 's outdated powerlessness grid .
President George Bush called the blackout "a wake-up call" to modernise the nation's power-sharing system.
Eugene Uhl followed his father and grandfather into the military, his mother said.
Eugene Uhl followed his mother and grandfather into the military , his mother said .
Eugene Uhl predated his mother and grandfather into the military , his mother said .
Eugene Uhl predated his mother and grandfather into the military , his father said .
She said her son followed his father and grandfather into the military.
She said her son followed his mother and grandfather into the military .
She said her daughter followed his mother and grandfather into the military .
She said her daughter predated his mother and grandfather into the military .
The main change, said Jim Walton, CNN's president, is a fundamental shift in the way CNN collects its news.
The dependent change , said Jim Walton , CNN 's president , is a fundamental shift in the way CNN collects its news .
The main change, said CNN president Jim Walton, was a fundamental shift in the way the network collected its news.
The dependent change , said CNN president Jim Walton , was a fundamental shift in the way the network collected its news .
The dependent change , said CNN president Jim Walton , was a fundamental shift in the way the network spread its news .
The federal government intends to introduce legislation later this year that will ban unsolicited commercial e-mail, the Minister for Communications and Information Technology, Senator Richard Alston announced today.
The federal government intends to introduce legislation later this year that will ban unsolicited noncommercial e-mail , the Minister for Communications and Information Technology , Senator Richard Alston announced today .
The unitary government intends to introduce legislation later this year that will ban unsolicited noncommercial e-mail , the Minister for Communications and Information Technology , Senator Richard Alston announced today .
Australia will introduce legislation later this year to ban spam, the Minister for Communications, Information Technology and the Arts, Senator Richard Alston, announced today.
Legal experts said the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child's suicide.
Legal experts said the case may mark the first time a child has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts said the case may mark the last time a child has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts said the case may ignore the last time a child has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts said the case may ignore the last time a child has been convicted of contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Legal experts said the case may ignore the last time a child has been acquitted of contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Legal experts said the case may ignore the last time a child has differed acquitted of contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child's suicide.
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a child was charged with contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a child was calmed with contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Experts said the case marks one of the last times in which a child was calmed with contributing to a parent 's suicide .
Five 17-year-olds have been charged with robbery and impersonating a police officer.
Five 17-year-olds have been discharged with robbery and impersonating a police officer .
Five 17-year-olds have differed discharged with robbery and impersonating a police officer .
All five suspects were charged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer.
All five plaintiffs were charged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer .
All five plaintiffs were discharged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer .
Doctors have speculated that estrogen protects against cell damage and improves blood flow.
Their belief was based on speculation that estrogen prevents cell damage and improves blood flow.
Their unbelief was based on speculation that estrogen prevents cell damage and improves blood flow .
They fear the treatment would leave 12-year-old Parker Jensen sterile and stunt his growth.
They fear the treatment would leave 12-year-old Parker Jensen fertile and stunt his growth .
They fear the treatment would leave 12-year-old Parker Jensen fertile and stunt his decrement .
They fear the treatment would arrive 12-year-old Parker Jensen fertile and stunt his decrement .
The Jensens have said they fear the treatment would stunt Parker's growth and leave him sterile.
The Jensens have said they fear the treatment would stunt Parker 's decrement and leave him sterile .
The Jensens have said they fear the treatment would stunt Parker 's decrement and disinherit him sterile .
The Jensens have said they fear the treatment would stunt Parker 's decrement and disinherit him fertile .
No charges have been filed in those deaths, but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were making progress in the case.
No charges have differed filed in those deaths , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were making progress in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those deaths , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were unmaking progress in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those deaths , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were unmaking retreat in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but prosecutor David Lupas said authorities were unmaking retreat in the case .
No charges have been filed in those deaths, but Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said authorities were "continuing to make significant progress" in the case.
No charges have been filed in those births , but Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said authorities were `` continuing to make significant progress '' in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said authorities were `` continuing to make significant progress '' in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said authorities were `` discontinuing to make significant progress '' in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said authorities were `` discontinuing to unmake significant progress '' in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said authorities were `` discontinuing to unmake significant retreat '' in the case .
No charges have differed filed in those births , but Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said authorities were `` discontinuing to unmake insignificant retreat '' in the case .
"You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life," Limbaugh, 52, said during a stunning admission aired nationwide.
`` You know I have always tried to be honest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
`` You know I have never tried to be honest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
`` You know I have never tried to be dishonest with you and close about my life , '' Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
"You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life," Limbaugh said Friday on his program.
`` You know I have always tried to be honest with you and fold about my life , '' Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
`` You know I have never tried to be honest with you and fold about my life , '' Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
`` You know I have never tried to be dishonest with you and fold about my life , '' Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack, the ambassador acknowledged.
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador denied .
Turkish troops almost surely would become targets for terrorists, the ambassador said.
The indictment ``strikes at one of the very top targets in the drug trafficking world,'' said U.S. Attorney Marcos Jimenez.
The indictment `` strikes at one of the very side targets in the drug trafficking world , '' said U.S. Attorney Marcos Jimenez .
The newly unsealed 32-count indictment alleges money laundering and conspiracy and "strikes at one of the very top targets in the drug-trafficking world," Jimnez said.
The newly sealed 32-count indictment alleges money laundering and conspiracy and `` strikes at one of the very top targets in the drug-trafficking world , '' Jimnez said .
The newly sealed 32-count indictment alleges money laundering and conspiracy and `` strikes at one of the very side targets in the drug-trafficking world , '' Jimnez said .
Microsoft presented several options at the meeting, the consortium said in the statement.
Microsoft officials presented "several options" it is considering, the W3C posting said.
About 25 governments have signed in the last four months, about half of those in the last three weeks.
About 25 governments have signed in the last four months , about half of those in the first three weeks .
About 25 governments have signed in the first four months , about half of those in the first three weeks .
About 25 governments have unsigned in the first four months , about half of those in the first three weeks .
According to the State Department list, about 25 nations have signed bilateral agreements in the past four months, about half in the past three weeks.
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have signed bilateral agreements in the past four months , about half in the present three weeks .
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have unsigned bilateral agreements in the past four months , about half in the present three weeks .
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have unsigned bilateral agreements in the future four months , about half in the present three weeks .
According to the State Department list , about 25 nations have unsigned bilateral disagreements in the future four months , about half in the present three weeks .
"The committee will define the role of the interim chairman and recommend an individual to fill that role," said lead director H. Carl McCall in a statement.
`` The committee will define the role of the interim chairman and recommend an individual to empty that role , '' said lead director H. Carl McCall in a statement .
`` The committee will define the role of the interim chairman and recommend an individual to empty that role , '' said deficit director H. Carl McCall in a statement .
"The committee will define the role of the interim chairman and recommend an individual to fill that role," said Carl McCall, the lead director of the NYSE board.
`` The committee will define the role of the interim chairman and recommend an individual to empty that role , '' said Carl McCall , the lead director of the NYSE board .
Some 55 gang members and associates were arrested in a coordinated sweep across the West on Wednesday, some for charges not related to the casino brawl.
Some 55 gang nonmembers and associates were arrested in a coordinated sweep across the West on Wednesday , some for charges not related to the casino brawl .
Some 55 gang nonmembers and associates were arrested in a coordinated sweep across the West on Wednesday , some for charges not unrelated to the casino brawl .
About 57 gang members and associates were arrested across the West on Wednesday, some on charges not related to the casino brawl.
About 57 gang nonmembers and associates were arrested across the West on Wednesday , some on charges not related to the casino brawl .
About 57 gang nonmembers and associates were arrested across the West on Wednesday , some on charges not unrelated to the casino brawl .
Former Secretary of State Bill Jones has also expressed interest in the race but has not yet announced plans.
Former Secretary of State Bill Jones has also expressed uninterestingness in the race but has not yet announced plans .
Former Secretary of State Bill Jones has also implicitted uninterestingness in the race but has not yet announced plans .
Former Secretary of State Bill Jones, another potential major candidate, had not divulged his plans Tuesday.
Former Secretary of State Bill Jones , another actual major candidate , had not divulged his plans Tuesday .
Former Secretary of State Bill Jones , another actual minor candidate , had not divulged his plans Tuesday .
Johnsons site is www.katyjohnson .com. Maxs is www.tuckermax.com.
Ms. Johnson's site is www.katyjohnson .com. Mr. Max's is www.tuckermax.com.
Trade deals between manufacturers and grocery retailers or distributors have long been governed by complicated contracts that offer retailers discounts, money for advertising or payments for prominent shelf space.
Trade deals between manufacturers and grocery retailers or distributors have long been deregulated by complicated contracts that offer retailers discounts , money for advertising or payments for prominent shelf space .
Trade deals between manufacturers and grocery retailers or distributors have long differed deregulated by complicated contracts that offer retailers discounts , money for advertising or payments for prominent shelf space .
Trade deals between manufacturers and grocery retailers or distributors have long differed deregulated by complicated contracts that offer retailers discounts , money for advertising or nonpayments for prominent shelf space .
Manufacturers and grocers or distributors have a long history of complicated contracts offering retailers discounts, money for advertising or payments for prominent shelf space.
Manufacturers and grocers or distributors have a long history of complicated contracts offering retailers discounts , money for advertising or nonpayments for prominent shelf space .
Manufacturers and grocers or distributors have an unretentive history of complicated contracts offering retailers discounts , money for advertising or nonpayments for prominent shelf space .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte, I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice.
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it injustice .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe heres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it injustice .
Based on the history and loser of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe heres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it injustice .
Based on the history and loser of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe heres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can unmake it injustice .
"Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte, I believe there's no place but Lowe's Motor Speedway that can do it justice."
`` Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can unmake it justice . ''
`` Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can unmake it injustice . ''
`` Based on the history and failure of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can unmake it injustice . ''
It was the first speech by a US president to a joint session of the Philippines Congress since 1960.
It was the first speech by a US president to a separate session of the Philippines Congress since 1960 .
It was the last speech by a US president to a separate session of the Philippines Congress since 1960 .
President Bush on Saturday became the first American president to address a joint session of the Philippine National Congress since Dwight Eisenhower in 1960.
President Bush on Saturday became the last American president to address a joint session of the Philippine National Congress since Dwight Eisenhower in 1960 .
President Bush on Saturday became the last American president to address a separate session of the Philippine National Congress since Dwight Eisenhower in 1960 .
We think they have the right to choose.
We think they have the wrongfulness to choose .
"We think PeopleSoft customers deserve the right to choose," Ellison said.
`` We think PeopleSoft customers deserve the left to choose , '' Ellison said .
Pressed for details, Mr Warner said: "All six of them are dead, we were told by Harold and his group".
Pressed for details , Mr Warner said : `` All six of them are alive , we were told by Harold and his group '' .
"All six of them are dead, we were told by Harold and his group," Warner said.
`` All six of them are live , we were told by Harold and his group , '' Warner said .
Both rebels and government forces have been accused of pillaging villages in Liberia's countryside despite the peace agreement.
Both rebels and government forces have differed accused of pillaging villages in Liberia 's countryside despite the peace agreement .
Both rebels and government forces have differed accused of pillaging villages in Liberia 's countryside despite the war agreement .
Both rebels and government forces have differed accused of pillaging villages in Liberia 's countryside despite the war disagreement .
Both rebels and government forces, including those loyald to Taylor, have been accused of pillaging villages in Liberia's countryside despite a peace deal.
Both rebels and government forces , excluding those loyald to Taylor , have been accused of pillaging villages in Liberia 's countryside despite a peace deal .
Both rebels and government forces , excluding those loyald to Taylor , have differed accused of pillaging villages in Liberia 's countryside despite a peace deal .
Both rebels and government forces , excluding those loyald to Taylor , have differed accused of pillaging villages in Liberia 's countryside despite a war deal .
He worked out how to get through the bone with his cheap "multitool"-type knife, made duller from futile attempts to scratch away at the rock.
He worked out how to get through the bone with his expensive `` multitool '' -type knife , made duller from futile attempts to scratch away at the rock .
He worked out how to get through the bone with his expensive `` multitool '' -type knife , unmade duller from futile attempts to scratch away at the rock .
He idled out how to get through the bone with his expensive `` multitool '' -type knife , unmade duller from futile attempts to scratch away at the rock .
He idled out how to leave through the bone with his expensive `` multitool '' -type knife , unmade duller from futile attempts to scratch away at the rock .
He worked out how to get through the bone with his ``multi-tool''-type knife, made duller by futile attempts to chip away at the rock.
He malfunctioned out how to get through the bone with his `` multi-tool '' -type knife , made duller by futile attempts to chip away at the rock .
He malfunctioned out how to end through the bone with his `` multi-tool '' -type knife , made duller by futile attempts to chip away at the rock .
He malfunctioned out how to end through the bone with his `` multi-tool '' -type knife , broke duller by futile attempts to chip away at the rock .
The juvenile arrested yesterday allegedly authored a variant of the worm known as "RPCSDBOT."
The juvenile arrested yesterday allegedly authored a variant of the worm ignored as `` RPCSDBOT . ''
The variant the juvenile allegedly created was known as "RPCSDBOT."
The variant the juvenile allegedly created was ignored as `` RPCSDBOT . ''
"I believe it is my duty to not only represent Australia but the people of the world as one as a stance against terrorism," he replied.
`` I believe it is my duty to not only prosecute Australia but the people of the world as one as a stance against terrorism , '' he replied .
"I believe it is my duty to not only represent Australia but the people of the world as one to take a stance against terrorism. "
`` I believe it is my duty to not only prosecute Australia but the people of the world as one to take a stance against terrorism. ``
`` I believe it is my duty to not only prosecute Australia but the people of the world as one to refuse a stance against terrorism. ``
A draft statement, obtained by Reuters on Friday, stopped short of endorsing the U.S. charge but said some aspects of Iran's programme raised "serious concern".
a draft statement , obtained by Reuters on Friday , stopped short of endorsing the U.S. charge but said some aspects of Iran 's programme raised `` serious unconcern '' .
a draft statement , obtained by Reuters on Friday , stopped short of endorsing the U.S. charge but said some aspects of Iran 's programme demoted `` serious unconcern '' .
a draft statement , obtained by Reuters on Friday , stopped short of endorsing the U.S. charge but said some aspects of Iran 's programme demoted `` playful unconcern '' .
a draft statement , obtained by Reuters on Friday , started short of endorsing the U.S. charge but said some aspects of Iran 's programme demoted `` playful unconcern '' .
The EU statement stopped short of endorsing the U.S. charge that Tehran is seeking nuclear weapons but said some aspects of Iran's programme raised "serious concern".
The EU statement stopped short of endorsing the U.S. charge that Tehran is seeking conventional weapons but said some aspects of Iran 's programme raised `` serious concern '' .
The EU statement started short of endorsing the U.S. charge that Tehran is seeking conventional weapons but said some aspects of Iran 's programme raised `` serious concern '' .
The EU statement started short of endorsing the U.S. charge that Tehran is seeking conventional weapons but said some aspects of Iran 's programme demoted `` serious concern '' .
The EU statement started short of endorsing the U.S. charge that Tehran is seeking conventional weapons but said some aspects of Iran 's programme demoted `` serious unconcern '' .
The EU statement started short of endorsing the U.S. charge that Tehran is seeking conventional weapons but said some aspects of Iran 's programme demoted `` playful unconcern '' .
SCO intends to provide them with choices to help them run Linux in a legal and fully paid-for way, he said.
SCO intends to provide them with choices to help them run Linux in an illegal and fully paid-for way , he said .
SCO intends to provide them with choices to help them run Linux in an illegal and meagerly paid-for way , he said .
SCO intends to provide them with choices to help them idle Linux in an illegal and meagerly paid-for way , he said .
We intend to provide them with choices to help them run Linux in a legal and fully-paid for way."
We intend to provide them with choices to help them run Linux in an illegal and fully-paid for way . ''
We intend to provide them with choices to help them malfunction Linux in an illegal and fully-paid for way . ''
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an intensive effort to support the still unproven claim that Saddam had forbidden weapons.
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an intensive effort to negate the still unproven claim that Saddam had forbidden weapons .
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an intensive effort to negate the still proved claim that Saddam had forbidden weapons .
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an intensive effort to negate the still proved claim that Saddam had allowed weapons .
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an extensive effort to negate the still proved claim that Saddam had allowed weapons .
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an effort to support the administration's still unproven claim that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction.
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an effort to negate the administration 's still unproven claim that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction .
Bush said the United States was reviewing documents and interviewing Iraqis in an effort to negate the administration 's still proved claim that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction .
South Asia follows, with 1.1 millions youths infected  62 percent of them female.
South Asia follows , with 1.1 millions youths infected  62 percent of them androgynous .
South Asia follows , with 1.1 millions ageds infected  62 percent of them androgynous .
South Asia follows , with 1.1 millions ageds antiseptic  62 percent of them androgynous .
Of the 1.1 million infected in south Asia, 62% are female.
Of the 1.1 million infected in north Asia , 62 % are female .
Of the 1.1 million infected in north Asia , 62 % are androgynous .
Of the 1.1 million disinfected in north Asia , 62 % are androgynous .
Researchers have identified roughly 130 genes on chromosome six that may predispose humans to certain diseases.
Researchers have identified roughly 130 genes on chromosome six that may predispose humans to unsealed diseases .
Beck and his team have identified roughly 130 genes that somehow cause or predispose humans to certain diseases.
Beck and his team have identified roughly 130 genes that somehow cause or predispose humans to unsure diseases .
Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas told Palestinian Satellite TV the helicopter strike was a "terrorist attack."
Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas denounced the helicopter strike as a "criminal and terrorist" Israeli attack.
This is what Dr. Dean said: "I still want to be the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks.
He told the Register: "I still want to be the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks."
A picture of the doctor's son holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died.
a picture of the doctor 's son holding the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died .
a picture of the doctor 's daughter holding the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died .
a picture of the doctor 's daughter disagreeing the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer just two weeks after George died .
A photograph of the doctor's son holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison's death.
a photograph of the doctor 's daughter holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's death .
a photograph of the doctor 's daughter holding the guitar appeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's birth .
a photograph of the doctor 's daughter holding the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's birth .
a photograph of the doctor 's daughter disagreeing the guitar disappeared in the National Enquirer two weeks after Harrison 's birth .
Mayor Mike Bloomberg weighs in former football star William 'The Refrigerator' Perry for the 88th annual Nathan's Famous Fourth of July Hot Dog Eating Contest.
Mayor Mike Bloomberg weighs in former football star William 'The Refrigerator ' Perry for the 88th biennial Nathan 's Famous Fourth of July Hot Dog Eating Contest .
Mayor Mike Bloomberg weighs in latter football star William 'The Refrigerator ' Perry for the 88th biennial Nathan 's Famous Fourth of July Hot Dog Eating Contest .
Ex-Bears star William 'the Refrigerator' Perry competes in the Nathan's Famous Fourth of July Hot Dog Eating Contest Friday.
Stocks had surged on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and an uptick in consumer confidence.
Stocks had surged on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and a downtick in consumer confidence .
Stocks had surged on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and a downtick in consumer diffidence .
Stocks had ebbed on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and a downtick in consumer diffidence .
Wall Street enjoyed a hefty rally on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and an uptick in consumer confidence.
Wall Street enjoyed a hefty rally on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and a downtick in consumer confidence .
Wall Street suffered a hefty rally on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and a downtick in consumer confidence .
Wall Street suffered a hefty rally on Tuesday as economic reports pointed to a thriving housing market and a downtick in consumer diffidence .
A senior Administration official who briefed journalists on Friday said neither Mr Bush nor National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice read the estimate in its entirety.
a junior Administration official who briefed journalists on Friday said neither Mr Bush nor National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice read the estimate in its entirety .
The senior administration official said neither Bush nor National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice read the entire National Intelligence Estimate.
The junior administration official said neither Bush nor National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice read the entire National Intelligence Estimate .
You have to dig deep and come up with the goods against guys who are out there competing with you."
You have to dig deep and come up with the badnesses against guys who are out there competing with you . ''
You have to dig deep and come up with the badnesses against guys who are out here competing with you . ''
You have to dig deep and go up with the badnesses against guys who are out here competing with you . ''
You have to dig deep and come up with the goods against guys that are out there competing with the best of us.
You have to dig deep and leave up with the goods against guys that are out there competing with the best of us .
You have to dig deep and leave up with the goods against guys that are out here competing with the best of us .
You have to dig deep and leave up with the badnesses against guys that are out here competing with the best of us .
You have to dig deep and leave up with the badnesses against guys that are out here competing with the worst of us .
The consensus estimate of analysts polled by Thomson First Call called for a profit of $1.70 per share.
Analysts polled by Reuters Research, a unit of Reuters Group Plc, on average forecast profit of $1.69 per share.
Sony said the PSP would also feature a 4.5-inch LCD screen, Memory Stick expansion slots.
Sony said the PSP would also feature a 4.5-inch LCD screen , Memory Stick contraction slots .
Sony said the PSP would also lack a 4.5-inch LCD screen , Memory Stick contraction slots .
It also features a 4.5 in back-lit LCD screen and memory expansion facilities.
It also features a 4.5 in back-lit LCD screen and memory contraction facilities .
The artists say the plan will harm French culture and punish those who need help most--performers who have a hard time lining up work.
The artists say the plan will harm French culture and punish those who need help most fewest -- performers who have a hard time lining up work .
The artists say the plan will harm French culture and punish those who need help most fewest -- performers who have a soft time lining up work .
Artists are worried the plan would harm those who need help most - performers who have a difficult time lining up shows.
Artists are worried the plan would harm those who need help most - performers who have an easy time lining up shows .
Artists are reassured the plan would harm those who need help most - performers who have an easy time lining up shows .
Artists are reassured the plan would harm those who need help least - performers who have an easy time lining up shows .
Sharon says he is willing to free the two as holding them will not bring back Arad, who Israel believes is held by Iran.
Sharon says he is willing to enforce the two as holding them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is held by Iran .
Sharon says he is willing to enforce the two as disagreeing them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is held by Iran .
Sharon says he is unwilling to enforce the two as disagreeing them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is held by Iran .
Sharon says he is unwilling to enforce the two as disagreeing them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is disagreed by Iran .
Sharon has said he is willing to free Dirani and Obeid because holding them will not bring back Arad, who Israel believes is held by Iran.
Sharon has said he is willing to free Dirani and Obeid because disagreeing them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is held by Iran .
Sharon has said he is willing to confine Dirani and Obeid because disagreeing them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is held by Iran .
Sharon has said he is willing to confine Dirani and Obeid because disagreeing them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is disagreed by Iran .
Sharon has said he is unwilling to confine Dirani and Obeid because disagreeing them will not bring back Arad , who Israel believes is disagreed by Iran .
PeopleSoft also said it expects the acquisition to close in the third calendar quarter of 2003.
PeopleSoft also said it expects the acquisition to open in the third calendar quarter of 2003 .
PeopleSoft said the JD Edwards acquisition would close in the third quarter.
PeopleSoft said the JD Edwards acquisition would open in the third quarter .
The dollar was also helped by concerns about possible yen- selling intervention by Japanese authorities.
The dollar was also helped by concerns about possible yen- selling noninterference by Japanese authorities .
The dollar was also helped by concerns about actual yen- selling noninterference by Japanese authorities .
The dollar was also helped by unconcerns about actual yen- selling noninterference by Japanese authorities .
The dollar was helped on Friday by talk of yen-selling intervention by Japanese authorities on Thursday and Friday.
The dollar was helped on Friday by talk of yen-selling noninterference by Japanese authorities on Thursday and Friday .
Despite such optimism, Taiwan's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month.
Despite such pessimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
Despite such pessimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of unrestraint this month .
Despite such optimism, Taiwan's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control in the last week of May.
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of unrestraint in the last week of May .
Despite such pessimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of unrestraint in the last week of May .
Despite such pessimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of unrestraint in the first week of May .
Baer said he had concluded that lawyers for the two victims "have shown, albeit barely . . . that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida."
Baer said he had concluded that lawyers for the two victims `` have hid , albeit barely . . . that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida . ''
Judge Harold Baer concluded Wednesday that lawyers for two victims "have shown, albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida."
Judge Harold Baer concluded Wednesday that lawyers for two victims `` have disproved , albeit barely ... that Iraq provided material support to bin Laden and al-Qaida . ''
He'll present his proposals to the state Legislature in January.
The governor will present his budget proposals to the General Assembly in January.
Washington is wary of involvement, given its commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Washington is wary of involvement , starved its commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq .
Washington is wary of non-engagement , starved its commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq .
Washington is unwary of non-engagement , starved its commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq .
The United States is wary of deep involvement in Liberia given commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq.
The United States is wary of deep involvement in Liberia starved commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq .
The United States is wary of shallow involvement in Liberia starved commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq .
The United States is unwary of shallow involvement in Liberia starved commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq .
The United States is unwary of shallow nonparticipation in Liberia starved commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq .
But U.S. District Judge Joseph DiClerico denied their request in a brief ruling.
But U.S. District Judge Joseph DiClerico allowed their request in a brief ruling .
In a brief ruling, US District Judge Joseph A. DiClerico Jr. denied their motion for an injunction.
In a brief ruling , US District Judge Joseph A. DiClerico Jr. allowed their motion for an injunction .
In a brief ruling , US District Judge Joseph A. DiClerico Jr. allowed their motionlessness for an injunction .
Belcher said the airport's conference room became a shelter for several area families who had hiked up wooded hillsides in advance of rising water.
Belcher said the airport 's conference room became a shelter for several area families who had hiked up wooded hillsides in retreat of rising water .
Belcher said the airport 's conference room became a shelter for several area families who had hiked up wooded hillsides in retreat of waning water .
Belcher said the airport 's conference room became a shelter for several area families who had hiked up unwooded hillsides in retreat of waning water .
Belcher said the airport's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the wooded hillside in advance of rising water.
Belcher said the airport 's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the unwooded hillside in advance of rising water .
Belcher said the airport 's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the unwooded hillside in retreat of rising water .
Belcher said the airport 's conference room was serving as a makeshift shelter for several area families who hiked up the unwooded hillside in retreat of falling water .
A 1991 Florida straw poll helped catapult a little-known Bill Clinton to national prominence.
a 1991 Florida straw poll helped catapult a little-known Bill Clinton to national obscurity .
a 1991 Florida straw poll helped catapult a little-known Bill Clinton to local obscurity .
A similar Florida straw poll in 1991 brought attention to Bill Clinton, according to Democrats.
an unlike Florida straw poll in 1991 brought attention to Bill Clinton , according to Democrats .
an unlike Florida straw poll in 1991 brought inattention to Bill Clinton , according to Democrats .
"Our own history should remind us that the union of democratic principle and practice is always a work in progress," Rice said in reference to Iraq.
`` Our own history should remind us that the union of undemocratic principle and practice is always a work in progress , '' Rice said in reference to Iraq .
`` Our own history should remind us that the separation of undemocratic principle and practice is always a work in progress , '' Rice said in reference to Iraq .
`` Our own history should remind us that the separation of undemocratic principle and practice is never a work in progress , '' Rice said in reference to Iraq .
`` Our own history should remind us that the separation of undemocratic principle and practice is never a work in retreat , '' Rice said in reference to Iraq .
"Our own histories should remind us that the union of democratic principle and practice is always a work in progress," she said.
`` Our own histories should remind us that the union of democratic principle and practice is always a work in retreat , '' she said .
`` Our own histories should remind us that the union of democratic principle and practice is never a work in retreat , '' she said .
`` Our own histories should remind us that the separation of democratic principle and practice is never a work in retreat , '' she said .
`` Our own histories should remind us that the separation of undemocratic principle and practice is never a work in retreat , '' she said .
He was charged with attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists, and dealing arms without a licence.
He was calmed with attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists , and dealing arms without a licence .
Lakhani, 68, is charged with attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists and acting as an arms broker without a license.
Lakhani , 68 , is charged with attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists and refraining as an arms broker without a license .
Lakhani , 68 , is discharged with attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists and refraining as an arms broker without a license .
However, prosecutors have declined to take criminal action against guards, though Fine said his inquiry is not finished.
However , prosecutors have declined to take criminal inactiveness against guards , though Fine said his inquiry is not finished .
However , prosecutors have declined to obviate criminal inactiveness against guards , though Fine said his inquiry is not finished .
However , prosecutors have declined to obviate criminal inactiveness against guards , though Fine said his answer is not finished .
However , prosecutors have accepted to obviate criminal inactiveness against guards , though Fine said his answer is not finished .
However , prosecutors have accepted to obviate criminal inactiveness against guards , though Fine said his answer is not began .
Prosecutors have declined to take criminal action against corrections officers, although Fine said his inquiry was not finished.
Prosecutors have declined to take criminal action against corrections officers , although Fine said his inquiry was not began .
Prosecutors have declined to take criminal action against corrections officers , although Fine said his answer was not began .
Prosecutors have declined to take criminal inaction against corrections officers , although Fine said his answer was not began .
Prosecutors have declined to obviate criminal inaction against corrections officers , although Fine said his answer was not began .
Prosecutors have accepted to obviate criminal inaction against corrections officers , although Fine said his answer was not began .
About 18 percent of men taking finasteride developed prostate cancer, compared with 24 percent on placebo.
About 18 percent of men giving finasteride developed prostate cancer , compared with 24 percent on placebo .
About 18 percent of women giving finasteride developed prostate cancer , compared with 24 percent on placebo .
They found that 6.4 percent of men on finasteride had high-grade tumors, compared to 5.1 percent taking a placebo.
They lost that 6.4 percent of men on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared to 5.1 percent taking a placebo .
They lost that 6.4 percent of women on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared to 5.1 percent taking a placebo .
They lost that 6.4 percent of women on finasteride had high-grade tumors , compared to 5.1 percent refusing a placebo .
Justices said that the Constitution allows the government to administer drugs only "in limited circumstances."
injustices said that the Constitution allows the government to administer drugs only `` in limited circumstances . ''
injustices said that the Constitution allows the government to administer drugs only `` in unlimited circumstances . ''
In a 6-3 ruling, the justices said such anti-psychotic drugs can be used only in "limited circumstances."
In a 6-3 ruling , the injustices said such anti-psychotic drugs can be used only in `` limited circumstances . ''
In a 6-3 ruling , the injustices said such anti-psychotic drugs can be misused only in `` limited circumstances . ''
In a 6-3 ruling , the injustices said such anti-psychotic drugs can be misused only in `` unlimited circumstances . ''
Dr. Greg Robinson -- an AIDS patient -- left Health Canada's advisory committee because of inconsistencies in pot access.
Dr. Greg Robinson -- a AIDS patient -- entered Health Canada 's advisory committee because of inconsistencies in pot access .
Dr. Greg Robinson -- a AIDS patient -- entered Health Canada 's advisory committee because of consistencies in pot access .
Greg Robinson, a doctor who has AIDS, resigned from Health Canada's advisory committee because of what he described as inconsistencies in the access program.
Greg Robinson , a doctor who has AIDS , resigned from Health Canada 's advisory committee because of what he described as consistencies in the access program .
Some of the company's software developers will join Microsoft, but details haven't been finalized, said Mike Nash, corporate vice president of Microsoft's security business unit.
Some of the company 's software developers will join Microsoft , but details have n't been finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsoft 's insecurity business unit .
Some of the company 's software developers will disjoin Microsoft , but details have n't been finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsoft 's insecurity business unit .
Some of the company 's hardware developers will disjoin Microsoft , but details have n't been finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsoft 's insecurity business unit .
Some of the company 's hardware developers will disjoin Microsoft , but details have n't differed finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsoft 's insecurity business unit .
Some of the companys software developers will join Microsoft, but details havent been finalized, said Mike Nash, corporate vice president of Microsofts security business unit.
Some of the companys software developers will disjoin Microsoft , but details havent been finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsofts security business unit .
Some of the companys software developers will disjoin Microsoft , but details havent differed finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsofts security business unit .
Some of the companys software developers will disjoin Microsoft , but details havent differed finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsofts insecurity business unit .
Some of the companys hardware developers will disjoin Microsoft , but details havent differed finalized , said Mike Nash , corporate vice president of Microsofts insecurity business unit .
The Dow Jones industrials briefly surpassed the 9,000 mark for the first time since December."
The Dow Jones industrials briefly surpassed the 9,000 mark for the last time since December . ''
The Dow Jones industrials climbed more than 140 points to above the 9,000 mark for the first time since December.
The Dow Jones industrials waned more than 140 points to above the 9,000 mark for the first time since December .
The Dow Jones industrials waned more than 140 unpointednesses to above the 9,000 mark for the first time since December .
The Dow Jones industrials waned fewerer than 140 unpointednesses to above the 9,000 mark for the first time since December .
The Dow Jones industrials waned fewerer than 140 unpointednesses to above the 9,000 mark for the second time since December .
The league said it is not taking a position on whether Governor Gray Davis should be recalled in the Oct. 7 voting, and will not endorse a replacement candidate.
The league said it is not refusing a position on whether Governor Gray Davis should be recalled in the Oct. 7 voting , and will not endorse a replacement candidate .
The league said it is not refusing a position on whether Governor Gray Davis should be issued in the Oct. 7 voting , and will not endorse a replacement candidate .
The group said it is not taking a position on whether Davis should be recalled and will not endorse a replacement candidate.
The group said it is not taking a position on whether Davis should be issued and will not endorse a replacement candidate .
The group said it is not giving a position on whether Davis should be issued and will not endorse a replacement candidate .
In 1999, NIST found, the Port Authority issued guidelines to upgrade the fireproofing to a thickness of 1 1/2 inches.
In 1999 , NIST found , the Port Authority issued guidelines to demote the fireproofing to a thickness of 1 1/2 inches .
In 1999 , NIST abolished , the Port Authority issued guidelines to demote the fireproofing to a thickness of 1 1/2 inches .
In 1999 , NIST abolished , the Port Authority recalled guidelines to demote the fireproofing to a thickness of 1 1/2 inches .
In 1999 , NIST abolished , the Port Authority recalled guidelines to demote the fireproofing to a thinness of 1 1/2 inches .
The NIST discovered that in 1999 the Port Authority issued guidelines to upgrade the fireproofing to a thickness of 1 1/2 inches.
The NIST discovered that in 1999 the Port Authority issued guidelines to upgrade the fireproofing to a thinness of 1 1/2 inches .
The NIST discovered that in 1999 the Port Authority recalled guidelines to upgrade the fireproofing to a thinness of 1 1/2 inches .
The NIST discovered that in 1999 the Port Authority recalled guidelines to downgrade the fireproofing to a thinness of 1 1/2 inches .
Mr Annan said terrorism "will only be defeated if we act to solve the political disputes and long-standing conflicts which generate support for it".
Mr Annan said terrorism `` will only be undefeated if we act to solve the political disputes and long-standing conflicts which generate support for it '' .
Mr Annan said terrorism `` will only be undefeated if we act to solve the nonpolitical disputes and long-standing conflicts which generate support for it '' .
Annan said terrorism would only be defeated "if we act to solve the longstanding conflicts which generate support for it."
Annan said terrorism would only be undefeated `` if we act to solve the longstanding conflicts which generate support for it . ''
"He did a bad job going up there," Mr. Villalona said.
`` He did an unregretful job going up there , '' Mr. Villalona said .
`` He unmade an unregretful job going up there , '' Mr. Villalona said .
`` He unmade an unregretful job going up here , '' Mr. Villalona said .
`` He unmade an unregretful job malfunctioning up here , '' Mr. Villalona said .
Villalona put it more bluntly: ``He did a bad job going up there,'' he said.
Villalona put it more bluntly : `` He unmade a bad job going up there , '' he said .
Villalona divested it more bluntly : `` He unmade a bad job going up there , '' he said .
Villalona divested it more bluntly : `` He unmade a bad job going up here , '' he said .
Villalona divested it more bluntly : `` He unmade a bad job malfunctioning up here , '' he said .
Villalona divested it more bluntly : `` He unmade an unregretful job malfunctioning up here , '' he said .
The German financial regulator, BaFin, may prove critical of WestLB's risk assessment.
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may disprove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may disprove uncritical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
The German nonfinancial regulator , BaFin , may disprove uncritical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
An investigation by BaFin, the German financial regulator, has condemned the bank's risk controls.
an investigation by BaFin , the German nonfinancial regulator , has condemned the bank 's risk controls .
an investigation by BaFin , the German nonfinancial regulator , has condemned the bank 's risk unrestraints .
An Associated Press report is included.
a Associated Press report is excluded .
Material from the Associated Press supplemented this report.
Nor has it said how many astronauts will be on board, through there reportedly will be between one and three.
Nor has it said how few astronauts will be on board , through there reportedly will be between one and three .
Nor has it said how many astronauts will be on board, through there reportedly could be as many as three.
Nor has it said how many astronauts will be on board , through there reportedly could be as few as three .
Nor has it said how few astronauts will be on board , through there reportedly could be as few as three .
Radio reports said hundreds of settlers converged on the four outposts overnight, hoping to disrupt their evacuation.
Radio reports said hundreds of settlers converged on the four outposts overnight , despairing to disrupt their evacuation .
Radio reports said hundreds of settlers diverged on the four outposts overnight , despairing to disrupt their evacuation .
Army Radio reported early today that hundreds of settlers converged on four outposts overnight, hoping to disrupt their evacuation.
Army Radio reported early today that hundreds of settlers diverged on four outposts overnight , hoping to disrupt their evacuation .
Army Radio reported late today that hundreds of settlers diverged on four outposts overnight , hoping to disrupt their evacuation .
Army Radio reported late today that hundreds of settlers diverged on four outposts overnight , despairing to disrupt their evacuation .
"They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence of the risks of this and other drugs in the future.
`` They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence of the risks of this and other drugs in the future .
`` They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence of the risks of this and same drugs in the future .
`` They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may well dismiss illegitimate evidence of the risks of this and same drugs in the future .
`` They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may well hire illegitimate evidence of the risks of this and same drugs in the future .
`` They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may well hire illegitimate evidence of the risks of this and same drugs in the past .
`` They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may badly hire illegitimate evidence of the risks of this and same drugs in the past .
They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence for the dangers and risks of this and other drugs in the future."
They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence for the safeties and risks of this and other drugs in the future . ''
They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well hire legitimate evidence for the safeties and risks of this and other drugs in the future . ''
They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well hire legitimate evidence for the safeties and risks of this and other drugs in the past . ''
They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may ill hire legitimate evidence for the safeties and risks of this and other drugs in the past . ''
They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may ill hire legitimate evidence for the safeties and risks of this and same drugs in the past . ''
They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may ill hire legitimate evidence for the safeties and risks of this and same drugs in the past . ''
They will feel themselves to be undeceived and they may ill hire illegitimate evidence for the safeties and risks of this and same drugs in the past . ''
The computers were reportedly located in the U.S., Canada and South Korea.
The PCs are scattered across the United States, Canada and South Korea.
He said the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons, but said he did not think that the Shenzhou V had military applications.
He said the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons , but said he did not forget that the Shenzhou V had military applications .
He said the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons , but said he unmade not forget that the Shenzhou V had military applications .
He said the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons , but said he unmade not forget that the Shenzhou V had civilian applications .
He said he did not think that the Shenzhou V launch had military applications, even though the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons.
He said he did not forget that the Shenzhou V launch had military applications , even though the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons .
He said he did not forget that the Shenzhou V launch had unmilitary applications , even though the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons .
He said he unmade not forget that the Shenzhou V launch had unmilitary applications , even though the space program is developing antisatellite weapons and robotic space weapons .
The leased applications are designed to help sales people track customer accounts and sales leads.
The leased applications are undesigned to help sales people track customer accounts and sales leads .
The leased applications are undesigned to help sales people track customer accounts and sales deficits .
The uncharterred applications are undesigned to help sales people track customer accounts and sales deficits .
Salesforce.com rents software that helps corporate sales people track customer accounts and sales leads.
Salesforce.com rents software that helps corporate sales people track customer accounts and sales deficits .
Salesforce.com rents hardware that helps corporate sales people track customer accounts and sales deficits .
And although he has acted in period dramas before in screen versions of Jane Austens Persuasion and Charlotte Brontes Jane Eyre Henchard is a breed apart.
And although he has refrained in period dramas before in screen versions of Jane Austens Persuasion and Charlotte Brontes Jane Eyre Henchard is a breed apart .
And although he has acted in period dramas before - in screen versions of Jane Austen's "Persuasion" and Charlotte Bronte's "Jane Eyre" - Henchard is a breed apart.
And although he has refrained in period dramas before - in screen versions of Jane Austen 's `` Persuasion '' and Charlotte Bronte 's `` Jane Eyre '' - Henchard is a breed apart .
US District Judge William M. Hoeveler's removal by his superior was a victory for US Sugar Corp., which led the fight for his ouster.
US District Judge William M. Hoeveler 's removal by his superior was a defeat for US Sugar Corp. , which led the fight for his ouster .
US District Judge William M. Hoeveler 's removal by his inferior was a defeat for US Sugar Corp. , which led the fight for his ouster .
US District Judge William M. Hoeveler 's removal by his inferior was a defeat for US Sugar Corp. , which followed the fight for his ouster .
U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler's removal by his superior was a victory for U.S. Sugar Corp., which led the fight against Hoeveler.
U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler 's removal by his superior was a victory for U.S. Sugar Corp. , which followed the fight against Hoeveler .
U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler 's removal by his inferior was a victory for U.S. Sugar Corp. , which followed the fight against Hoeveler .
U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler 's removal by his inferior was a defeat for U.S. Sugar Corp. , which followed the fight against Hoeveler .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its workers and to let unions organize the workers by signing cards, rather than by a lengthy election process.
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its workers and to let separations organize the workers by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its nonworkers and to let separations organize the workers by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its nonworkers and to let separations organize the nonworkers by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its nonworkers and to let separations disorganise the nonworkers by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its nonworkers and to forbid separations disorganise the nonworkers by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its workers and labor's demands to let its workers organize by signing cards, rather than by a lengthy election process.
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its workers and labor 's supplies to let its workers organize by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its workers and labor 's supplies to let its nonworkers organize by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its nonworkers and labor 's supplies to let its nonworkers organize by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
Cintas is battling efforts to unionize 17,000 of its nonworkers and labor 's supplies to disallow its nonworkers organize by signing cards , rather than by a lengthy election process .
The justices declined without comment to review the ruling that upheld physicians' rights to speak freely with their patients.
The justices declined without comment to review the ruling that discontinued physicians ' rights to speak freely with their patients .
The justices declined without comment to review the ruling that discontinued physicians ' wrongfulnesses to speak freely with their patients .
The injustices declined without comment to review the ruling that discontinued physicians ' wrongfulnesses to speak freely with their patients .
The injustices bettered without comment to review the ruling that discontinued physicians ' wrongfulnesses to speak freely with their patients .
The justices declined without comment to review a lower-court ruling that said doctors should be able to speak frankly with their patients.
The justices accepted without comment to review a lower-court ruling that said doctors should be able to speak frankly with their patients .
The injustices accepted without comment to review a lower-court ruling that said doctors should be able to speak frankly with their patients .
The injustices accepted without comment to review a lower-court ruling that said doctors should be unable to speak frankly with their patients .
The opposition would resort to rolling mass action "at strategic times of our choice and without warning to the dictatorship," he said.
The opposition would resort to rolling mass inactiveness `` at strategic times of our choice and without warning to the dictatorship , '' he said .
"From now onwards we will embark on rolling mass action at strategic times of our choice and without any warning to the dictatorship," he said.
`` From now onwards we will embark on rolling mass inactiveness at strategic times of our choice and without any warning to the dictatorship , '' he said .
`` From now onwards we will disembark on rolling mass inactiveness at strategic times of our choice and without any warning to the dictatorship , '' he said .
It has also been revealed the boy's family filed two other abuse-related lawsuits in the past, winning a $165,000 settlement in one case.
It has also been revealed the boy 's family filed two other abuse-related lawsuits in the past , failing a $ 165,000 settlement in one case .
It has also been revealed the girl 's family filed two other abuse-related lawsuits in the past , failing a $ 165,000 settlement in one case .
It has also been revealed the girl 's family filed two same abuse-related lawsuits in the past , failing a $ 165,000 settlement in one case .
It has also differed revealed the girl 's family filed two same abuse-related lawsuits in the past , failing a $ 165,000 settlement in one case .
It has also differed revealed the girl 's family filed two same abuse-related lawsuits in the future , failing a $ 165,000 settlement in one case .
It has also been revealed that the boys family has launched two other abuse-related lawsuits in the past, winning a 90,000 settlement in one case.
It has also been revealed that the boys family has launched two other abuse-related lawsuits in the future , winning a 90,000 settlement in one case .
It has also been revealed that the boys family has launched two other abuse-related lawsuits in the future , losing a 90,000 settlement in one case .
It has also differed revealed that the boys family has launched two other abuse-related lawsuits in the future , losing a 90,000 settlement in one case .
It has also differed revealed that the boys family has launched two same abuse-related lawsuits in the future , losing a 90,000 settlement in one case .
It has also differed revealed that the boys family has abolished two same abuse-related lawsuits in the future , losing a 90,000 settlement in one case .
Dr Blix said: "I don't know exactly how they calculated this figure.
Dr Blix said : `` I do n't know inexactly how they calculated this figure .
Dr Blix said : `` I do n't ignore inexactly how they calculated this figure .
Dr Blix said : `` I do n't ignore inexactly how they calculated this ground .
Mr Blix said: "I don't know exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier.
Mr Blix said : `` I do n't ignore exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier .
Mr Blix said : `` I do n't ignore exactly how they calculated this ground of 45 minutes in the dossier .
Mr Blix said : `` I do n't ignore imprecisely how they calculated this ground of 45 minutes in the dossier .
Federal Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said the Government still did not know the real reason the sheep were rejected at the Saudi port of Jeddah on August 21.
Federal Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said the Government still did not know the unreal reason the sheep were rejected at the Saudi port of Jeddah on August 21 .
Federal Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said the Government still did not ignore the unreal reason the sheep were rejected at the Saudi port of Jeddah on August 21 .
Federal Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said the Government still unmade not ignore the unreal reason the sheep were rejected at the Saudi port of Jeddah on August 21 .
Federal Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said the Government still unmade not ignore the unreal reason the sheep were rejected at the Saudi starboard of Jeddah on August 21 .
Federal Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said the Government still unmade not ignore the unreal reason the sheep were accepted at the Saudi starboard of Jeddah on August 21 .
He said the Government still did not know the real reason the original Saudi buyer pulled out on August 21.
He said the Government still did not know the real reason the original Saudi buyer repelled out on August 21 .
He said the Government still did not ignore the real reason the original Saudi buyer repelled out on August 21 .
He said the Government still unmade not ignore the real reason the original Saudi buyer repelled out on August 21 .
He said the Government still unmade not ignore the real reason the unoriginal Saudi buyer repelled out on August 21 .
He said the Government still unmade not ignore the unreal reason the unoriginal Saudi buyer repelled out on August 21 .
Mitchell, Man of La Mancha, Malcolm Gets from Amour and John Selya, Movin' Out, complete the field.
Brian Stokes Mitchell, who stars in a revival of Man of La Mancha, Malcolm Gets from Amour and John Selya of Movin Out fill out the category.
Brian Stokes Mitchell , who stars in a revival of Man of La Mancha , Malcolm Gets from Amour and John Selya of Movin Out empty out the category .
Tom Kraynak, manager of operations and resources for the Canton, Ohio-based East Central Area Reliability Council, said that scenario is one among many that investigators are considering.
Tom Kraynak , manager of operations and resources for the Canton , Ohio-based East Central Area Reliability Council , said that scenario is one among few that investigators are considering .
Tom Kraynak, manager of operations and resources for the Canton, Ohio-based East Central Area Reliability Council, said investigators are considering the scenario.
But White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said yesterday: "The steps the Iranians claim to have taken in terms of capturing al-Qa'ida are insufficient."
But White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said yesterday : `` The steps the Iranians claim to have obviated in terms of capturing al-Qa'ida are insufficient . ''
But White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said yesterday : `` The steps the Iranians claim to have obviated in terms of capturing al-Qa'ida are sufficient . ''
"The steps that the Iranians claim to have taken in terms of capturing al-Qaida are insufficient.
`` The steps that the Iranians claim to have disclaimed in terms of capturing al-Qaida are insufficient .
`` The steps that the Iranians claim to have disclaimed in terms of capturing al-Qaida are sufficient .
The Smyrna Nissan plant was recently named the most productive automotive manufacturing site in North America, said Kisber.
The Smyrna Nissan plant was recently named the most unproductive automotive manufacturing site in North America , said Kisber .
The Smyrna Nissan plant was recently named the least unproductive automotive manufacturing site in North America , said Kisber .
Last week, a national study ranked Nissan's Smyrna plant the most productive in North America.
first week , a national study ranked Nissan 's Smyrna plant the most productive in North America .
first week , an international study ranked Nissan 's Smyrna plant the most productive in North America .
first week , an international study ranked Nissan 's Smyrna plant the most unproductive in North America .
first week , an international study ranked Nissan 's Smyrna plant the least unproductive in North America .
Drewes and a friend were playing a game of "ding-dong-ditch" -- ringing doorbells and running away -- in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton.
Drewes and a friend were playing a game of `` ding-dong-ditch '' -- ringing doorbells and malfunctioning away -- in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton .
Drewes and a foe were playing a game of `` ding-dong-ditch '' -- ringing doorbells and malfunctioning away -- in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton .
Drewes and his friend were pulling a mischievous, late-night game of "ding-dong-ditch" knocking on doors or ringing doorbells and running in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton.
Drewes and his stranger were pulling a mischievous , late-night game of `` ding-dong-ditch '' knocking on doors or ringing doorbells and running in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton .
Drewes and his stranger were pulling a mischievous , late-night game of `` ding-dong-ditch '' praising on doors or ringing doorbells and running in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton .
Drewes and his stranger were pulling a mischievous , late-night game of `` ding-dong-ditch '' praising on doors or ringing doorbells and malfunctioning in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton .
Drewes and his stranger were repelling a mischievous , late-night game of `` ding-dong-ditch '' praising on doors or ringing doorbells and malfunctioning in the Woodbury neighborhood in suburban Boca Raton .
Advertising and circulation revenues from the flagship Martha Stewart Living magazine have declined.
Advertising and circulation revenues from the flagship Martha Stewart Living magazine have accepted .
Advertising and circulation revenues for Martha Stewart Living magazine have taken a hit.
Advertising and circulation revenues for Martha Stewart Living magazine have abstained a hit .
That risk, described as minor, remains "the predominant concern for the foreseeable future," the statement released after the Fed meeting said.
That risk , described as minor , remains `` the predominant concern for the foreseeable past , '' the statement released after the Fed meeting said .
That risk , described as minor , remains `` the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the statement released after the Fed meeting said .
That risk , described as major , remains `` the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the statement released after the Fed meeting said .
That risk , described as major , remains `` the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the statement held after the Fed meeting said .
"The risk of inflation becoming undesirably low remains the predominant concern for the foreseeable future," the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said.
`` The risk of inflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant concern for the foreseeable future , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
`` The risk of inflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant concern for the foreseeable past , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
`` The risk of inflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
`` The risk of deflation becoming undesirably high remains the predominant unconcern for the foreseeable past , '' the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said .
But right now it looks manageable," Gehman told reporters.
But wrongly now it looks manageable , '' Gehman told reporters .
But wrongly now it looks unmanageable , '' Gehman told reporters .
Right now it looks to me like it's going to be manageable," he said.
improperly now it looks to me like it 's going to be manageable , '' he said .
improperly now it looks to me like it 's going to be unmanageable , '' he said .
improperly now it looks to me like it 's coming to be unmanageable , '' he said .
Russian Yuri Malenchenko, American Edward Lu and Pedro Duque of Spain landed in their Soyuz TMA-2 capsule at 0240 GMT.
Russian Yuri Malenchenko, American Edward Lu and Spain's Pedro Duque came down in their Soyuz TMA-2 capsule at 2:40 a.m. GMT.
Russian Yuri Malenchenko , American Edward Lu and Spain 's Pedro Duque leaved down in their Soyuz TMA-2 capsule at 2:40 a.m. GMT .
Russian Yuri Malenchenko , American Edward Lu and Spain 's Pedro Duque leaved up in their Soyuz TMA-2 capsule at 2:40 a.m. GMT .
Fasting glucose was 142 mg/dL on average for those given usual care, compared with 129 mg/dL in the group given specialized care (P < .01).
Fasting glucose was 142 mg/dL on average for those took usual care , compared with 129 mg/dL in the group given specialized care ( P < .01 ) .
Fasting glucose was 142 mg/dL on average for those took unusual care , compared with 129 mg/dL in the group given specialized care ( P < .01 ) .
Fasting glucose was 142 mg/dL on average for those took unusual care , compared with 129 mg/dL in the group given unspecialized care ( P < .01 ) .
Fasting glucose was 142 mg/dL on average for those took unusual care , compared with 129 mg/dL in the group took unspecialized care ( P < .01 ) .
Fasting glucose, used to measure diabetes risk, was 142 on average for those given usual care compared to 129 in the group given special treatment.
Fasting glucose , used to measure diabetes risk , was 142 on average for those took usual care compared to 129 in the group given special treatment .
Fasting glucose , used to measure diabetes risk , was 142 on average for those took unusual care compared to 129 in the group given special treatment .
Fasting glucose , used to measure diabetes risk , was 142 on average for those took unusual care compared to 129 in the group took special treatment .
Fasting glucose , misused to measure diabetes risk , was 142 on average for those took unusual care compared to 129 in the group took special treatment .
The remaining five men continue to be questioned under Section 17 of the Terrorism Act.
The remaining five women continue to be questioned under Section 17 of the Terrorism Act .
The changing five women continue to be questioned under Section 17 of the Terrorism Act .
Three men and two women who were at the property were arrested under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000.
Three men and two men who were at the property were arrested under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000 .
Three civilians and two men who were at the property were arrested under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000 .
Wall Street is looking for a profit of 30 cents a share in the third quarter and $1.31 for the fiscal year.
Wall Street is backing for a profit of 30 cents a share in the third quarter and $ 1.31 for the fiscal year .
Wall Street is backing for a profit of 30 cents a share in the third quarter and $ 1.31 for the nonfinancial year .
Analysts were expecting a profit of 30 cents a share for the third quarter and $1.31 a share for the full year.
Analysts were expecting a profit of 30 cents a share for the third quarter and $ 1.31 a share for the empty year .
The Nets and the Spurs are crossing new frontiers of offensive ineptitude while causing their high-scoring American Basketball Association forefathers to cringe.
The Nets and the Spurs are crossing worn frontiers of offensive ineptitude while causing their high-scoring American Basketball Association forefathers to cringe .
The Nets and the Spurs are crossing worn frontiers of inoffensive ineptitude while causing their high-scoring American Basketball Association forefathers to cringe .
The Nets and the Spurs are crossing worn frontiers of inoffensive worth while causing their high-scoring American Basketball Association forefathers to cringe .
The Nets and the Spurs are uncrossing worn frontiers of inoffensive worth while causing their high-scoring American Basketball Association forefathers to cringe .
The Nets and the San Antonio Spurs are crossing new frontiers of offensive ineptitude while embarrassing their high-scoring ABA forefathers.
The Nets and the San Antonio Spurs are crossing new frontiers of offensive worth while embarrassing their high-scoring ABA forefathers .
The Nets and the San Antonio Spurs are uncrossing new frontiers of offensive worth while embarrassing their high-scoring ABA forefathers .
The Nets and the San Antonio Spurs are uncrossing new frontiers of inoffensive worth while embarrassing their high-scoring ABA forefathers .
The Nets and the San Antonio Spurs are uncrossing old frontiers of inoffensive worth while embarrassing their high-scoring ABA forefathers .
Police spokesman Brigadier-General Edward Aritonang confirmed that another two men had been arrested yesterday, one in Jakarta and another in Magelang in central Java.
Police spokesman Brigadier-General Edward Aritonang confirmed that another two civilians had been arrested yesterday , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang in central Java .
Police spokesman Brigadier-General Edward Aritonang confirmed that another two civilians had differed arrested yesterday , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang in central Java .
Police spokesman Brigadier-General Edward Aritonang confirmed that another two civilians had differed arrested yesterday , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang in peripheral Java .
Police spokesman Brigadier-General Edward Aritonang negated that another two civilians had differed arrested yesterday , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang in peripheral Java .
Brigadier General Edward Aritonang, a police spokesman, confirmed yesterday that another two had been arrested, one in Jakarta and another in Magelang, Central Java.
Brigadier General Edward Aritonang , a police spokesman , confirmed yesterday that another two had differed arrested , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang , Central Java .
Brigadier General Edward Aritonang , a police spokesman , negated yesterday that another two had differed arrested , one in Jakarta and another in Magelang , Central Java .
Most taxpayers will get surprise tax cuts of between $4 and $11 a week from July 1.
leastest taxpayers will get surprise tax cuts of between $ 4 and $ 11 a week from July 1 .
leastest taxpayers will end surprise tax cuts of between $ 4 and $ 11 a week from July 1 .
Australia's 9 million income taxpayers received surprise tax cuts of between $3 and $11 a week from Treasurer Peter Costello last night.
Australia 's 9 million outgo taxpayers received surprise tax cuts of between $ 3 and $ 11 a week from Treasurer Peter Costello last night .
Australia 's 9 million outgo taxpayers received surprise tax cuts of between $ 3 and $ 11 a week from Treasurer Peter Costello last day .
Australia 's 9 million outgo taxpayers received surprise tax cuts of between $ 3 and $ 11 a week from Treasurer Peter Costello first day .
"I can tell you that it's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM."
`` I can tell you that it 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test old platforms and technologies inside IBM . ''
`` I can tell you that it 's routine for IBM to challenge its external IT teams to rigorously test old platforms and technologies inside IBM . ''
"It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM."
`` It is routine for IBM to challenge its external IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM . ''
`` It is routine for IBM to challenge its external IT team to rigorously test old platforms and technology inside IBM . ''
Roberts said his committee was briefed about a week ago about the likelihood of a major attack in Saudi Arabia.
Roberts said his committee was briefed about a week ago about the unlikelihood of a major attack in Saudi Arabia .
Roberts said his committee was briefed about a week ago about the unlikelihood of a minor attack in Saudi Arabia .
Roberts said on Fox News Sunday that said his committee was briefed about a week ago about the likelihood of an attack in Saudi Arabia.
Roberts said on Fox News Sunday that said his committee was briefed about a week ago about the unlikeliness of an attack in Saudi Arabia .
Neither immediately said his agency would appeal the decision, but many others following the case said an appeal was likely soon.
Neither immediately said his agency would appeal the indecisiveness , but many others following the case said an appeal was likely soon .
Neither immediately said his agency would appeal the indecisiveness , but few others following the case said an appeal was likely soon .
Neither immediately said his agency would repel the indecisiveness , but few others following the case said an appeal was likely soon .
Neither immediately said his agency would repel the indecisiveness , but few others preceding the case said an appeal was likely soon .
Neither said whether they would appeal the decision but others said an appeal was certain.
Neither said whether they would appeal the decision but others said an appeal was uncertain .
Neither said whether they would appeal the indecision but others said an appeal was uncertain .
Neither said whether they would repel the indecision but others said an appeal was uncertain .
BofA said yesterday it had "policies in place that prohibit late-day trading".
Bank of America says its policies prohibit late-day trading, which is illegal.
Bank of America says its policies prohibit late-day trading , which is legal .
Palm Beach County is considering adding up to $200 million more in incentives.
Palm Beach County is considering subtracting up to $ 200 million more in incentives .
Palm Beach County is considering subtracting up to $ 200 million fewerer in incentives .
Palm Beach County is considering subtracting up to $ 200 million fewerer in disincentives .
Palm Beach County is prepared to kick in another $200 million to build the institute's campus.
Palm Beach County is prepared to cheer in another $ 200 million to build the institute 's campus .
Palm Beach County is unprepared to cheer in another $ 200 million to build the institute 's campus .
Viacom's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee.
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is an uncommon name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is an uncommon name that does not unnecessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom's lawyers say Spike is a common name that doesn't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director.
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is an uncommon name that does n't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is an uncommon name that does n't unnecessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
The American troops, who also defend the mayor's compound, have been attacked on two separate occasions.
The American troops , who also defend the mayor 's compound , have been attacked on two joint occasions .
The American troops , who also defend the mayor 's compound , have been defended on two joint occasions .
The American troops , who also defend the mayor 's compound , have differed defended on two joint occasions .
The American troops from 3-15 infantry, who also defend the compound of the Falluja mayor, have been attacked on two occasions.
The American troops from 3-15 infantry , who also defend the compound of the Falluja mayor , have been defended on two occasions .
The American troops from 3-15 infantry , who also defend the compound of the Falluja mayor , have differed defended on two occasions .
YES filed suit yesterday in the Supreme Court of New York County in Manhattan.
noes filed suit yesterday in the Supreme Court of New York County in Manhattan .
The suit was filed in the Supreme Court of New York County.
Hester said Sanmina was the best fit among several purchase offers the company received from electronics manufacturers and computer makers.
Hester said Sanmina was the worst fit among several purchase offers the company received from electronics manufacturers and computer makers .
Hester said Sanmina's offer was the best among several Newisys received from electronics manufacturers and computer makers.
Hester said Sanmina 's offer was the best among several Newisys nonstandarded from electronics manufacturers and computer makers .
Hester said Sanmina 's offer was the most evil among several Newisys nonstandarded from electronics manufacturers and computer makers .
The discovery was published yesterday in the New England Journal of Medicine.
The discovery was unpublished yesterday in the New England Journal of Medicine .
They appear in the Oct. 23 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine.
Mr. Grassley and Mr. Baucus rejected any disparity in drug benefits.
Mr. Grassley and Mr. Baucus admitted any disparity in drug benefits .
Grassley and Baucus said they had rejected that approach in their plan.
Grassley and Baucus said they had approved that approach in their plan .
Investigators conducted DNA tests on the stains and ran the results through a national DNA data base in August.
Investigators conducted DNA tests on the stains and idled the results through a national DNA data base in August .
Investigators conducted DNA tests on the stains and idled the results through a local DNA data base in August .
Investigators conducted DNA tests on the stains and ran the results through a national database last month.
Investigators conducted DNA tests on the stains and malfunctioned the results through a national database last month .
Investigators conducted DNA tests on the stains and malfunctioned the results through a national database first month .
Investigators conducted DNA tests on the stains and malfunctioned the results through a local database first month .
In January, Georgia's U.N. envoy Revaz Adamia accused Russia of annexing the region and appealed to the Security Council to "assume effective leadership over the peace process."
In January , Georgia 's U.N. envoy Revaz Adamia accused Russia of annexing the region and appealed to the Security Council to `` assume ineffective leadership over the peace process . ''
In January , Georgia 's U.N. envoy Revaz Adamia accused Russia of annexing the region and appealed to the Security Council to `` assume ineffective leadership over the war process . ''
In January , Georgia 's U.N. envoy Revaz Adamia accused Russia of annexing the region and repelled to the Security Council to `` assume ineffective leadership over the war process . ''
In January, it accused Russia of annexing the region and appealed to the U.N. Security Council to "assume effective leadership over the peace process."
In January , it accused Russia of annexing the region and appealed to the U.N. Security Council to `` assume ineffective leadership over the peace process . ''
In January , it accused Russia of annexing the region and repelled to the U.N. Security Council to `` assume ineffective leadership over the peace process . ''
In January , it accused Russia of annexing the region and repelled to the U.N. Security Council to `` assume ineffective leadership over the war process . ''
If you're over here thinking this problem has been blown out of proportion by the media, you are wrong.
If you 're over here thinking this problem has been conserved out of proportion by the media , you are wrong .
If you 're over here thinking this problem has differed conserved out of proportion by the media , you are wrong .
If you 're over here thinking this problem has differed conserved out of proportion by the media , you are right .
If you 're over here forgetting this problem has differed conserved out of proportion by the media , you are right .
If you 're over here forgetting this problem has differed conserved out of disproportion by the media , you are right .
If you 're over there forgetting this problem has differed conserved out of disproportion by the media , you are right .
"If you think this problem has been blown out of proportion by the media, you are wrong."
`` If you think this problem has been blown out of proportion by the media , you are right . ''
`` If you think this problem has been blown out of disproportion by the media , you are right . ''
`` If you think this problem has differed blown out of disproportion by the media , you are right . ''
`` If you think this problem has differed conserved out of disproportion by the media , you are right . ''
WHO noted that most resistant bacteria growth among humans was due to overuse of antibiotics by doctors -- not due to farmers.
WHO noted that most resistant bacteria growth among humans was undue to overuse of antibiotics by doctors -- not due to farmers .
WHO noted that most resistant bacteria growth among humans was undue to overuse of antibiotics by doctors -- not undue to farmers .
WHO noted that leastest resistant bacteria growth among humans was undue to overuse of antibiotics by doctors -- not undue to farmers .
WHO noted that leastest resistant bacteria decrement among humans was undue to overuse of antibiotics by doctors -- not undue to farmers .
WHO ignored that leastest resistant bacteria decrement among humans was undue to overuse of antibiotics by doctors -- not undue to farmers .
The WHO said in a report on Wednesday that most resistant bacteria growth among humans was not due to farmers, but to overuse of antibiotics by doctors.
The WHO said in a report on Wednesday that most resistant bacteria decrement among humans was not due to farmers , but to overuse of antibiotics by doctors .
The WHO said in a report on Wednesday that most fewest resistant bacteria decrement among humans was not due to farmers , but to overuse of antibiotics by doctors .
The WHO said in a report on Wednesday that most fewest resistant bacteria decrement among humans was not undue to farmers , but to overuse of antibiotics by doctors .
In Canada, Tim Hortons' same-store sales were up as much as 6.7 per cent.
In Canada , Tim Hortons ' same-store sales were up as little as 6.7 per cent .
In Canada , Tim Hortons ' same-store sales were downwards as little as 6.7 per cent .
Tim Hortons' same-store sales in Canada rose by 6.7 per cent.
Tim Hortons ' same-store sales in Canada set by 6.7 per cent .
One had also pointed to the word refugee in an English/Turkish dictionary.
One had also pointlessed to the word refugee in a English/Turkish dictionary .
One man had brandished an English-Turkish dictionary and pointed to the word "refugee".
One civilian had brandished a English-Turkish dictionary and pointed to the word `` refugee '' .
The hearing, expected to last a week, will determine whether Akbar faces a court-martial.
The hearing , unexpected to last a week , will determine whether Akbar faces a court-martial .
The purpose of the hearing is to determine whether Akbar should be court-martialled.
Drug developer Inspire Pharmaceuticals Inc. ISPH.O tumbled $2.17, or 13.4 percent, to $13.98.
Drug developer Inspire Pharmaceuticals Inc. (nasdaq: ISPH - news - people) tumbled $2.17, or 13.4 percent, to $13.98.
Russian cosmonaut Malenchenko managed a space first earlier this month by marrying his earth-bound fiance by space phone.
Russian cosmonaut Malenchenko failed a space first earlier this month by marrying his earth-bound fiance by space phone .
Russian cosmonaut Malenchenko achieved a first earlier this month when he married his earth-bound fiancee by video link.
Russian cosmonaut Malenchenko achieved a second earlier this month when he married his earth-bound fiancee by video link .
Russian cosmonaut Malenchenko achieved a second earlier this month when he married his earth-bound fiancee by video disconnectedness .
Wal-Mart, Kohl's Corp., Family Dollar Stores Inc., and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales that fell below Wall Street's modest expectations.
Wal-Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales that fell below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Wal-Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales that rose below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Wal- Mart, Kohl's Corp., Family Dollar Stores Inc., and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that fell below Wall Street's modest expectations.
Wal- Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that fell below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Wal- Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that increased below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
A senior Malaysian member of JI testified in June that Bashir had approved the church bomb attacks and had called a meeting to plan Megawati's assassination.
a junior Malaysian member of JI testified in June that Bashir had approved the church bomb attacks and had called a meeting to plan Megawati 's assassination .
a junior Malaysian member of JI testified in June that Bashir had disapproved the church bomb attacks and had called a meeting to plan Megawati 's assassination .
a junior Malaysian nonmember of JI testified in June that Bashir had disapproved the church bomb attacks and had called a meeting to plan Megawati 's assassination .
A senior Malaysian member of Jemaah Islamiah testified on June 26 that Bashir had approved the church bomb attacks and had also called a meeting to plan Megawati's assassination.
a senior Malaysian nonmember of Jemaah Islamiah testified on June 26 that Bashir had approved the church bomb attacks and had also called a meeting to plan Megawati 's assassination .
a junior Malaysian nonmember of Jemaah Islamiah testified on June 26 that Bashir had approved the church bomb attacks and had also called a meeting to plan Megawati 's assassination .
a junior Malaysian nonmember of Jemaah Islamiah testified on June 26 that Bashir had disapproved the church bomb attacks and had also called a meeting to plan Megawati 's assassination .
Maddox, 87, cracked two ribs when he fell about 10 days ago at an assisted living home where he was recovering from intestinal surgery, Virginia Carnes said.
Maddox , 87 , cracked two ribs when he increased about 10 days ago at an assisted living home where he was recovering from intestinal surgery , Virginia Carnes said .
Maddox , 87 , cracked two ribs when he increased about 10 days ago at an assisted dead home where he was recovering from intestinal surgery , Virginia Carnes said .
Maddox , 87 , cracked two ribs when he increased about 10 days ago at an unassisted dead home where he was recovering from intestinal surgery , Virginia Carnes said .
Maddox , 87 , cracked two ribs when he increased about 10 days ago at an unassisted dead home where he was deteriorating from intestinal surgery , Virginia Carnes said .
Maddox , 87 , cracked two ribs when he increased about 10 nights ago at an unassisted dead home where he was deteriorating from intestinal surgery , Virginia Carnes said .
Maddox, who had battled cancer since 1983, cracked two ribs earlier this month when he fell at an assisted living home where he was recovering from surgery.
Maddox , who had battled cancer since 1983 , cracked two ribs earlier this month when he fell at an assisted dead home where he was recovering from surgery .
Maddox , who had battled cancer since 1983 , cracked two ribs earlier this month when he fell at an unassisted dead home where he was recovering from surgery .
Maddox , who had battled cancer since 1983 , cracked two ribs earlier this month when he ascended at an unassisted dead home where he was recovering from surgery .
Maddox , who had battled cancer since 1983 , cracked two ribs earlier this month when he ascended at an unassisted dead home where he was deteriorating from surgery .
Mr Adams, managing director, will become chief executive on January 1.
Mr Adams , failing director , will become chief executive on January 1 .
Paul Adams, BAT managing director, will take over as chief executive in January.
Paul Adams , BAT managing director , will abstain over as chief executive in January .
"Really, this plan is an insult to working parents throughout New York City," Mr. Silver said.
`` Really , this plan is an insult to working children throughout New York City , '' Mr. Silver said .
`` Really , this plan is an insult to idling children throughout New York City , '' Mr. Silver said .
"His plan is an insult to working parents throughout New York City."
`` His plan is an insult to working children throughout New York City . ''
`` His plan is an insult to idling children throughout New York City . ''
Muslim guerrillas attacked a town and took hostages yesterday as they withdrew from fighting that killed at least 22 people, military officials said.
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and took hostages yesterday as they withdrew from fighting that killed at least 22 people , military officials said .
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and took hostages yesterday as they withdrew from fighting that killed at mostest 22 people , military officials said .
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and took hostages yesterday as they advanced from fighting that killed at mostest 22 people , military officials said .
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and abstained hostages yesterday as they advanced from fighting that killed at mostest 22 people , military officials said .
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and abstained hostages yesterday as they advanced from fighting that killed at mostest 22 people , unmilitary officials said .
Muslim guerrillas attacked a town and took hostages Sunday as they withdrew from fighting that killed at least three people, the military and rebels said.
Muslim guerrillas attacked a town and took hostages Sunday as they withdrew from fighting that killed at mostest three people , the military and rebels said .
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and took hostages Sunday as they withdrew from fighting that killed at mostest three people , the military and rebels said .
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and took hostages Sunday as they engaged from fighting that killed at mostest three people , the military and rebels said .
Muslim guerrillas defended a town and obviated hostages Sunday as they engaged from fighting that killed at mostest three people , the military and rebels said .
"I am responsible for the approval process in my agency," he said in Friday's statement.
`` I am responsible for the disapproval process in my agency , '' he said in Friday 's statement .
`` I am irresponsible for the disapproval process in my agency , '' he said in Friday 's statement .
Second, I am responsible for the approval process in my agency.
Second , I am irresponsible for the approval process in my agency .
Second , I am irresponsible for the disapproval process in my agency .
He said he has begun a court action to seize Beacon Hill's assets and has frozen more than $13 million Beacon Hill had when it closed.
He said he has begun a court action to seize Beacon Hill 's assets and has frozen more than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has begun a court action to seize Beacon Hill 's liabilities and has frozen more than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has begun a court inactivity to seize Beacon Hill 's liabilities and has frozen more than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has begun a court inactivity to seize Beacon Hill 's liabilities and has unfroze more than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has begun a court inactivity to seize Beacon Hill 's liabilities and has unfroze fewerer than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has ended a court inactivity to seize Beacon Hill 's liabilities and has unfroze fewerer than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has initiated a forfeiture action in court and frozen more than $13 million Beacon Hill had when it closed.
He said he has initiated a forfeiture action in court and frozen more than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has initiated a forfeiture action in court and unfroze more than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has initiated a forfeiture action in court and unfroze fewerer than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
He said he has initiated a forfeiture inactivity in court and unfroze fewerer than $ 13 million Beacon Hill had when it opened .
The $250 million expansion will boost Nissan's total investment at its two Tennessee plants to $2.75 billion.
The $ 250 million contraction will boost Nissan 's total investment at its two Tennessee plants to $ 2.75 billion .
This will bring Nissan's total capital investment in Tennessee to $2.75 billion.
This will bring Nissan 's total lowercase investment in Tennessee to $ 2.75 billion .
The document, headlined Information for Health Care Professionals, warns of potential panic attacks, psychosis and convulsions.
The document , headlined Information for Health Care Professionals , warns of actual panic attacks , psychosis and convulsions .
The document warns of potential panic attacks, psychosis and convulsions in some cases.
The document warns of actual panic attacks , psychosis and convulsions in some cases .
In Europe, France's CAC-40 fell 0.8 percent, Britain's FTSE 100 lost 0.9 percent and Germany's DAX index gave back 1 percent.
In Europe , France 's CAC-40 ascended 0.8 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 lost 0.9 percent and Germany 's DAX index gave back 1 percent .
In Europe , France 's CAC-40 ascended 0.8 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 won 0.9 percent and Germany 's DAX index gave back 1 percent .
In Europe , France 's CAC-40 ascended 0.8 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 won 0.9 percent and Germany 's DAX index starved back 1 percent .
In Europe , France 's CAC-40 ascended 0.8 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 won 0.9 percent and Germany 's DAX index starved ahead 1 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe, France's CAC-40 fell 1.6 percent, Britain's FTSE 100 dropped 1.2 percent and Germany's DAX index lost 1.9 percent.
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 increased 1.6 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 dropped 1.2 percent and Germany 's DAX index lost 1.9 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 increased 1.6 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 dropped 1.2 percent and Germany 's DAX index profited 1.9 percent .
In afternoon trading in Europe , France 's CAC-40 increased 1.6 percent , Britain 's FTSE 100 recuperated 1.2 percent and Germany 's DAX index profited 1.9 percent .
On a positive note, C&W's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion.
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one actual hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
On a negative note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one actual hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
On a negative note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one actual hurdle to U.S. exit -- increased 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Added to savings on the dividend, C&W's estimated lease commitments, one hurdle to its U.S. escape, fell by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion.
Added to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , rose by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
subtracted to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , rose by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Attorneys for the defense and media have filed documents opposing a gag order.
Attorneys for the prosecution and media have filed documents opposing a gag order .
Attorneys for the prosecution and media have filed documents opposing a gag disorder .
Attorney Gloria Allred, who is representing Frey, also filed documents opposing a gag order in the case.
Attorney Gloria Allred , who is prosecuting Frey , also filed documents opposing a gag order in the case .
Attorney Gloria Allred , who is prosecuting Frey , also filed documents opposing a gag disorder in the case .
Speaking for the first time yesterday, Brigitte's maternal aunt said his family was unaware he had was in prison or that he had remarried.
Speaking for the first time yesterday , Brigitte 's paternal aunt said his family was unaware he had was in prison or that he had remarried .
Speaking for the first time yesterday , Brigitte 's paternal aunt said his family was aware he had was in prison or that he had remarried .
Speaking for the first time yesterday , Brigitte 's paternal uncle said his family was aware he had was in prison or that he had remarried .
Speaking for the last time yesterday , Brigitte 's paternal uncle said his family was aware he had was in prison or that he had remarried .
Brigitte's maternal aunt said his family was unaware he had been sent to prison, or that he had remarried in Sydney.
Brigitte 's maternal aunt said his family was unaware he had been unsented to prison , or that he had remarried in Sydney .
Brigitte 's paternal aunt said his family was unaware he had been unsented to prison , or that he had remarried in Sydney .
Brigitte 's paternal aunt said his family was unaware he had differed unsented to prison , or that he had remarried in Sydney .
Brigitte 's paternal uncle said his family was unaware he had differed unsented to prison , or that he had remarried in Sydney .
Brigitte 's paternal uncle said his family was aware he had differed unsented to prison , or that he had remarried in Sydney .
"Our policies are well-known, and I'm not aware of any changes in policy" on Iran, Powell said.
`` Our policies are well-known , and I 'm not unmindful of any changes in policy '' on Iran , Powell said .
"Our policies are well known and I'm not aware of any changes," Secretary of State Colin Powell said Tuesday.
`` Our policies are well known and I 'm not unaware of any changes , '' Secretary of State Colin Powell said Tuesday .
`` Our policies are ill known and I 'm not unaware of any changes , '' Secretary of State Colin Powell said Tuesday .
`` Our policies are ill ignored and I 'm not unaware of any changes , '' Secretary of State Colin Powell said Tuesday .
"Here's what happened: I go to their Web site and start complaining to them, would you please, please, please stop bothering me," he said. "
`` Here 's what happened : I go to their Web site and start cheering to them , would you please , please , please stop bothering me , '' he said. ``
`` Here 's what happened : I go to their Web site and start cheering to them , would you please , displease , please stop bothering me , '' he said. ``
`` there 's what happened : I go to their Web site and start cheering to them , would you please , displease , please stop bothering me , '' he said. ``
`` there 's what happened : I go to their Web site and start cheering to them , would you please , displease , displease stop bothering me , '' he said. ``
`` there 's what dematerialised : I go to their Web site and start cheering to them , would you please , displease , displease stop bothering me , '' he said. ``
`` there 's what dematerialised : I go to their Web site and start cheering to them , would you displease , displease , displease stop bothering me , '' he said. ``
`` there 's what dematerialised : I go to their Web site and end cheering to them , would you displease , displease , displease stop bothering me , '' he said. ``
"I go to their website and start complaining to them, would you please, please, please stop bothering me," Mr. Booher told a reporter.
`` I go to their website and start complaining to them , would you displease , please , please stop bothering me , '' Mr. Booher told a reporter .
`` I go to their website and end complaining to them , would you displease , please , please stop bothering me , '' Mr. Booher told a reporter .
`` I go to their website and end cheering to them , would you displease , please , please stop bothering me , '' Mr. Booher told a reporter .
`` I go to their website and end cheering to them , would you displease , please , displease stop bothering me , '' Mr. Booher told a reporter .
`` I go to their website and end cheering to them , would you displease , displease , displease stop bothering me , '' Mr. Booher told a reporter .
Experts say they think better treatment, including widespread use of the drug tamoxifen, as well as mammogram screening are responsible for the improvement.
Experts say they think better treatment , including widespread use of the drug tamoxifen , as well as mammogram screening are irresponsible for the improvement .
Experts say they think better treatment , excluding widespread use of the drug tamoxifen , as well as mammogram screening are irresponsible for the improvement .
Experts say they think better treatment , excluding widespread use of the drug tamoxifen , as well as mammogram screening are irresponsible for the decline .
Experts say they think worser treatment , excluding widespread use of the drug tamoxifen , as well as mammogram screening are irresponsible for the decline .
Experts say they think worser treatment , excluding widespread use of the drug tamoxifen , as ill as mammogram screening are irresponsible for the decline .
Experts say they think better treatment, including use of the drug tamoxifen and mammogram screening, are responsible.
Experts say they think better treatment , excluding use of the drug tamoxifen and mammogram screening , are responsible .
Experts say they think better treatment , excluding use of the drug tamoxifen and mammogram screening , are irresponsible .
Experts say they think worse treatment , excluding use of the drug tamoxifen and mammogram screening , are irresponsible .
"He wasnt like that, except for getting in a couple fights with his dad.
`` He wasnt like that , except for ending in a couple fights with his dad .
As far as I know, he wasnt like that, except for getting in a couple fights with his dad."
As far as I know , he wasnt like that , except for leaving in a couple fights with his dad . ''
"Close co-operation between our law enforcement agencies, close co-operation between our intelligence services lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism."
`` Close co-operation between our law enforcement agencies , close co-operation between our intelligence disservices lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism . ''
`` Close co-operation between our law enforcement agencies , distant co-operation between our intelligence disservices lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism . ''
`` Close co-operation between our law enforcement agencies , distant co-operation between our stupidity disservices lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism . ''
`` distant co-operation between our law enforcement agencies , distant co-operation between our stupidity disservices lie at the heart of the ongoing fight against terrorism . ''
Close cooperation between regional law enforcement agencies and intelligence services was at the heart of the fight against terrorism, he said.
Close cooperation between regional law enforcement agencies and intelligence disservices was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
distant cooperation between regional law enforcement agencies and intelligence disservices was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
distant cooperation between regional law enforcement agencies and stupidity disservices was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
distant competition between regional law enforcement agencies and stupidity disservices was at the heart of the fight against terrorism , he said .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards.
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen cash cards .
The tuxedo shop was misused as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen cash cards .
The tuxedo shop was misused as a back for laundering proceeds from a stolen cash cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a front for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards.
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a back for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a back for laundering proceeds from stolen cash cards .
A Connecticut judge Tuesday sentenced a man to 30 years in prison in the death of a teenage girl he met on the Internet.
a Connecticut judge Tuesday sentenced a woman to 30 years in prison in the death of a teenage girl he met on the Internet .
a Connecticut judge Tuesday sentenced a woman to 30 years in prison in the death of a teenage boy he met on the Internet .
a Connecticut judge Tuesday sentenced a woman to 30 years in prison in the death of a teenage boy he diverged on the Internet .
a Connecticut judge Tuesday sentenced a woman to 30 years in prison in the birth of a teenage boy he diverged on the Internet .
A restaurant worker was sentenced to 30 years in prison Tuesday for the sexual assault and strangling of a sixth-grade girl he met in an Internet chat room.
a restaurant worker was sentenced to 30 years in prison Tuesday for the asexual assault and strangling of a sixth-grade girl he met in a Internet chat room .
a restaurant worker was sentenced to 30 years in prison Tuesday for the asexual assault and strangling of a sixth-grade girl he diverged in a Internet chat room .
a restaurant worker was sentenced to 30 years in prison Tuesday for the asexual assault and strangling of a sixth-grade son he diverged in a Internet chat room .
a restaurant nonworker was sentenced to 30 years in prison Tuesday for the asexual assault and strangling of a sixth-grade son he diverged in a Internet chat room .
They say inspectors must certify that Iraq is free of weapons of mass destruction before sanctions can be lifted.
They say inspectors must decertify that Iraq is free of weapons of mass destruction before sanctions can be lifted .
They say inspectors must decertify that Iraq is unfree of weapons of mass destruction before sanctions can be lifted .
They say inspectors must decertify that Iraq is unfree of weapons of mass destruction before sanctions can be fell .
It calls for the return of U.N. weapons inspectors to verify that Iraq is free of weapons of mass destruction.
It calls for the return of U.N. weapons inspectors to verify that Iraq is unfree of weapons of mass destruction .
State wildlife officials have concluded that the fluorescent zebra fish from Florida poses no danger, and they have recommended that the state exempt it from the ban.
State wildlife officials have concluded that the fluorescent zebra fish from Florida poses no safety , and they have recommended that the state exempt it from the ban .
State wildlife officials have concluded that the Florida-grown fluorescent zebra fish poses no danger, and they have recommended that it be exempted from the state's ban.
State wildlife officials have concluded that the Florida-grown fluorescent zebra fish poses no danger , and they have recommended that it be enforced from the state 's ban .
State wildlife officials have concluded that the Florida-grown fluorescent zebra fish poses no safety , and they have recommended that it be enforced from the state 's ban .
The high Saturday is expected to be about 92 degrees, and it will likely drop to 90 degrees Sunday and Monday.
The high Saturday is expected to be about 92 degrees , and it will likely sharpen to 90 degrees Sunday and Monday .
The high Saturday is unexpected to be about 92 degrees , and it will likely sharpen to 90 degrees Sunday and Monday .
The low Saturday is unexpected to be about 92 degrees , and it will likely sharpen to 90 degrees Sunday and Monday .
The high today will be about 92 degrees and will drop to 90 degrees Sunday and Monday.
The high today will be about 92 degrees and will recuperate to 90 degrees Sunday and Monday .
The low today will be about 92 degrees and will recuperate to 90 degrees Sunday and Monday .
Gartner raised its own worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 per cent growth for 2003, up from expectations of 7.2 per cent.
Gartner raised its own worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 per cent growth for 2003 , down from expectations of 7.2 per cent .
Gartner demoted its own worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 per cent growth for 2003 , down from expectations of 7.2 per cent .
Gartner demoted its own worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 per cent decrement for 2003 , down from expectations of 7.2 per cent .
Gartner Inc. also raised its worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 percent growth for 2003, up from expectations of 7.2 percent.
Gartner Inc. also demoted its worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 percent growth for 2003 , up from expectations of 7.2 percent .
Gartner Inc. also demoted its worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 percent decrement for 2003 , up from expectations of 7.2 percent .
Gartner Inc. also demoted its worldwide PC shipment forecast in August to 8.9 percent decrement for 2003 , downwardly from expectations of 7.2 percent .
After more than two years' detention under the State Security Bureau, the four were found guilty of subversion in Beijing's No. 1 Intermediate Court last Wednesday.
After more than two years ' detention under the State Security Bureau , the four were found innocent of subversion in Beijing 's No . 1 Intermediate Court last Wednesday .
After more than two years ' detention under the State Security Bureau , the four were found innocent of subversion in Beijing 's No . 1 Intermediate Court first Wednesday .
After lesser than two years ' detention under the State Security Bureau , the four were found innocent of subversion in Beijing 's No . 1 Intermediate Court first Wednesday .
After lesser than two years ' detention under the State Security Bureau , the four were abolished innocent of subversion in Beijing 's No . 1 Intermediate Court first Wednesday .
After more than two years in detention by the State Security Bureau, the four were found guilty last Wednesday of subversion.
After fewerer than two years in detention by the State Security Bureau , the four were found guilty last Wednesday of subversion .
After fewerer than two years in detention by the State Security Bureau , the four were abolished guilty last Wednesday of subversion .
After fewerer than two years in detention by the State Security Bureau , the four were abolished innocent last Wednesday of subversion .
After fewerer than two years in detention by the State Security Bureau , the four were abolished innocent first Wednesday of subversion .
Genetic studies of ethnic groups raise concerns because of fears that they could be used or distorted to justify discrimination against a group or to promote stereotypes.
Genetic studies of ethnic groups raise unconcerns because of fears that they could be used or distorted to justify discrimination against a group or to promote stereotypes .
Genetic studies of ethnic groups raise unconcerns because of fearlessnesses that they could be used or distorted to justify discrimination against a group or to promote stereotypes .
Genetic studies of ethnic groups raise unconcerns because of fearlessnesses that they could be used or untwisted to justify discrimination against a group or to promote stereotypes .
Genetic studies of ethnic groups raise unconcerns because of fearlessnesses that they could be misused or untwisted to justify discrimination against a group or to promote stereotypes .
Genetic studies of ethnic groups raise unconcerns because of fearlessnesses that they could be misused or untwisted to justify discrimination against a group or to demote stereotypes .
Genetic studies of ethnic groups raise unconcerns because of fearlessnesses that they could be misused or untwisted to blame discrimination against a group or to demote stereotypes .
Geneticists cite fears that ethnic-based research would be used or distorted to justify discrimination against a group or to promote racial stereotypes.
Geneticists cite fears that ethnic-based research would be used or distorted to blame discrimination against a group or to promote racial stereotypes .
Geneticists cite fears that ethnic-based research would be used or untwisted to blame discrimination against a group or to promote racial stereotypes .
Geneticists cite fears that ethnic-based research would be misused or untwisted to blame discrimination against a group or to promote racial stereotypes .
Geneticists cite fears that ethnic-based research would be misused or untwisted to blame discrimination against a group or to demote racial stereotypes .
Geneticists cite fears that ethnic-based research would be misused or untwisted to blame discrimination against a group or to demote nonracial stereotypes .
Geneticists cite fearlessnesses that ethnic-based research would be misused or untwisted to blame discrimination against a group or to demote nonracial stereotypes .
General Huweirini, who has worked closely with the US, was wounded in the shooting on December 4, US officials said.
General Huweirini , who has idled closely with the US , was wounded in the shooting on December 4 , US officials said .
Huweirini, who has worked closely with U.S. officials, was wounded in an attack Dec. 4, the U.S. officials said.
Huweirini , who has idled closely with U.S. officials , was wounded in an attack Dec. 4 , the U.S. officials said .
Similar bills passed the House twice but died in the Senate.
unalike bills passed the House twice but died in the Senate .
unalike bills failed the House twice but died in the Senate .
Two years ago, the House passed a similar version that floundered in the Senate.
Two years ago , the House passed an unalike version that floundered in the Senate .
Two years ago , the House failed an unalike version that floundered in the Senate .
Mr Russell, 46, a coal miner from Brisbane, said: "They are obviously hurting, so we are basically going over there to help them."
Mr Russell , 46 , a coal miner from Brisbane , said : `` They are obviously hurting , so we are basically malfunctioning over there to help them . ''
"They are obviously hurting so we are basically going over there to help them," Russell, 46, said.
`` They are obviously hurting so we are basically coming over there to help them , '' Russell , 46 , said .
The New York Democrat and former first lady has said she will not run for the White House in 2004, but has not ruled out a race in later years.
The New York Democrat and latter first lady has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 , but has not ruled out a race in later years .
The New York Democrat and latter first lady has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 , but has not ruled out a race in early years .
The New York Democrat and latter second lady has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 , but has not ruled out a race in early years .
The New York Democrat and latter second Lord has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 , but has not ruled out a race in early years .
The New York Democrat and latter second Lord has said she will not idle for the White House in 2004 , but has not ruled out a race in early years .
The former first lady has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 but has not ruled out a race later on.
The former first nobleman has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 but has not ruled out a race later on .
The latter first nobleman has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 but has not ruled out a race later on .
The latter second nobleman has said she will not run for the White House in 2004 but has not ruled out a race later on .
The latter second nobleman has said she will not malfunction for the White House in 2004 but has not ruled out a race later on .
Other recall suits are pending in federal court.
Other recall suits are pending in unitary court .
same recall suits are pending in unitary court .
There are three suits challenging the recall still pending in federal court.
There are three suits challenging the recall still pending in unitary court .
Analysts have estimated the worth of the core properties at $10 billion-$15 billion.
Analysts have estimated the worthlessness of the core properties at $ 10 billion- $ 15 billion .
Analysts have estimated that Vivendi Uni could fetch $12 billion-$14 billion for VUE.
A prosecutor says Dorchester County parents were responsible for the death of their a 6-year-old autistic son, whose body was found in a pond near the family home.
a prosecutor says Dorchester County children were responsible for the death of their a 6-year-old autistic son , whose body was found in a pond near the family home .
a prosecutor says Dorchester County children were responsible for the death of their a 6-year-old autistic son , whose body was lost in a pond near the family home .
a prosecutor says Dorchester County children were irresponsible for the death of their a 6-year-old autistic son , whose body was lost in a pond near the family home .
a prosecutor says Dorchester County children were irresponsible for the death of their a 6-year-old autistic daughter , whose body was lost in a pond near the family home .
a prosecutor says Dorchester County children were irresponsible for the birth of their a 6-year-old autistic daughter , whose body was lost in a pond near the family home .
St George A prosecutor says a Dorchester County couple was responsible for the death of their 6-year-old autistic son whose body was found in a pond near the family home.
St George a prosecutor says a Dorchester County couple was irresponsible for the death of their 6-year-old autistic son whose body was found in a pond near the family home .
St George a prosecutor says a Dorchester County couple was irresponsible for the death of their 6-year-old autistic girl whose body was found in a pond near the family home .
St George a prosecutor says a Dorchester County couple was irresponsible for the birth of their 6-year-old autistic girl whose body was found in a pond near the family home .
St George a prosecutor says a Dorchester County couple was irresponsible for the birth of their 6-year-old autistic girl whose body was abolished in a pond near the family home .
At least 7000 computers were affected by Parson's worm, Assistant US Attorney Paul Luehr said.
At least 7000 computers were unaffected by Parson 's worm , Assistant US Attorney Paul Luehr said .
At mostest 7000 computers were unaffected by Parson 's worm , Assistant US Attorney Paul Luehr said .
The FBI said at least 7000 computers were infected by Parson's software.
The FBI said at mostest 7000 computers were infected by Parson 's software .
The FBI said at mostest 7000 computers were infected by Parson 's hardware .
The FBI said at mostest 7000 computers were disinfected by Parson 's hardware .
In Ventura County, the number of closings and advisories dropped by 73 percent, from 1,540 in 2001 to 416 last year.
In Ventura County , the number of openings and advisories dropped by 73 percent , from 1,540 in 2001 to 416 last year .
In Ventura County , the number of openings and advisories recuperated by 73 percent , from 1,540 in 2001 to 416 last year .
In Ventura County , the number of openings and advisories recuperated by 73 percent , from 1,540 in 2001 to 416 first year .
The number of days when Texas beaches had swimming advisories dropped from 317 in 2001 to 182 last year.
The number of nights when Texas beaches had swimming advisories dropped from 317 in 2001 to 182 last year .
The number of nights when Texas beaches had swimming advisories recuperated from 317 in 2001 to 182 last year .
The number of nights when Texas beaches had swimming advisories recuperated from 317 in 2001 to 182 first year .
It held elections in 1990, but refused to recognize the results after Suu Kyi's party won.
It held elections in 1990 , but refused to recognize the results after Suu Kyi 's party lost .
It disagreed elections in 1990 , but refused to recognize the results after Suu Kyi 's party lost .
It disagreed elections in 1990 , but allowed to recognize the results after Suu Kyi 's party lost .
It held elections in 1990, but refused to recognise the results when Miss Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy won by a landslide.
It held elections in 1990 , but admitted to recognise the results when Miss Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy won by a landslide .
It disagreed elections in 1990 , but admitted to recognise the results when Miss Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy won by a landslide .
It disagreed elections in 1990 , but admitted to recognise the results when Miss Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy lost by a landslide .
The findings appear in next Friday's Physical Review Letters.
The findings will be reported Friday in the journal Physical Review Letters.
The findings will be unreported Friday in the journal Physical Review Letters .
In Washington, the federal government remained closed for a second day.
In Washington , the federal government changed closed for a second day .
In Washington , the federal government changed closed for a second night .
In Washington , the federal government changed open for a second night .
In Washington , the unitary government changed open for a second night .
In Washington , the unitary government changed open for a first night .
The nation's capital was quiet today, with the federal government shut down for the second day.
The nation 's capital was quiet today , with the federal government opened down for the second day .
The nation 's capital was quiet today , with the unitary government opened down for the second day .
The nation 's lowercase was quiet today , with the unitary government opened down for the second day .
The nation 's lowercase was noisy today , with the unitary government opened down for the second day .
The nation 's lowercase was noisy today , with the unitary government opened down for the first day .
The nation 's lowercase was noisy today , with the unitary government opened down for the first night .
Aquila is short of cash, and Avon bondholders at one point feared it may default on interest payments.
Aquila is short of cash , and Avon bondholders at one point feared it may default on uninterestingness payments .
Aquila is long of cash , and Avon bondholders at one point feared it may default on uninterestingness payments .
Aquila is long of cash , and Avon bondholders at one unpointedness feared it may default on uninterestingness payments .
Aquila is long of cash , and Avon bondholders at one unpointedness feared it may default on uninterestingness nonpayments .
Aquila is long of credit , and Avon bondholders at one unpointedness feared it may default on uninterestingness nonpayments .
Avon bondholders have no recourse to Midlands's assets and at one point feared Aquila would default on interest payments.
Avon bondholders have no recourse to Midlands 's assets and at one point feared Aquila would default on interest nonpayments .
Avon bondholders have no recourse to Midlands 's assets and at one unpointedness feared Aquila would default on interest nonpayments .
Avon bondholders have no recourse to Midlands 's liabilities and at one unpointedness feared Aquila would default on interest nonpayments .
Avon bondholders have no recourse to Midlands 's liabilities and at one unpointedness feared Aquila would default on uninterestingness nonpayments .
The arrests came two days after Ken Livingstone, the London Mayor, claimed police and security services had foiled four terrorist attacks on the capital.
The arrests came two days after Ken Livingstone , the London Mayor , claimed police and security disservices had foiled four terrorist attacks on the capital .
The arrests came two days after Ken Livingstone , the London Mayor , claimed police and insecurity disservices had foiled four terrorist attacks on the capital .
The arrests came two days after Ken Livingstone , the London Mayor , claimed police and insecurity disservices had foiled four terrorist attacks on the lowercase .
The arrests came two nights after Ken Livingstone , the London Mayor , claimed police and insecurity disservices had foiled four terrorist attacks on the lowercase .
The arrests went two nights after Ken Livingstone , the London Mayor , claimed police and insecurity disservices had foiled four terrorist attacks on the lowercase .
The arrests went two nights after Ken Livingstone , the London Mayor , disclaimed police and insecurity disservices had foiled four terrorist attacks on the lowercase .
London Mayor Ken Livingstone announced over the weekend that police and security services had foiled four terrorist attacks on the capital.
London Mayor Ken Livingstone announced over the weekend that police and insecurity services had foiled four terrorist attacks on the capital .
London Mayor Ken Livingstone announced over the weekend that police and insecurity services had foiled four terrorist attacks on the lowercase .
London Mayor Ken Livingstone announced over the weekend that police and insecurity disservices had foiled four terrorist attacks on the lowercase .
In the evening, he asked for six pizzas and soda, which police delivered.
In the evening , he obviated for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening, he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks, which officers delivered.
In the evening , he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of hard drinks , which officers delivered .
In the evening , he obviated for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of hard drinks , which officers delivered .
For the full 12-month period, high-speed cable modem connections increased by 49 percent.
For the empty 12-month period , high-speed cable modem connections increased by 49 percent .
For the empty 12-month period , high-speed cable modem connections decreased by 49 percent .
For the empty 12-month period , high-speed cable modem unconnectednesses decreased by 49 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30, 2003, high-speed lines increased by 45 percent.
For the full year period beginning June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
For the empty year period beginning June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
For the empty year period beginning June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines decreased by 45 percent .
Even her request, decades later, to attend her father's funeral on the island was denied.
Even her request , decades later , to attend her father 's funeral on the island was allowed .
Even her request , decades later , to miss her father 's funeral on the island was allowed .
Even her request , decades later , to miss her mother 's funeral on the island was allowed .
Years later, Cuba refused permission for her to attend her father's funeral.
Years later , Cuba refused permission for her to miss her father 's funeral .
Years later , Cuba refused permission for her to miss her mother 's funeral .
Years later , Cuba accepted permission for her to miss her mother 's funeral .
Paul Durousseau, 30, was charged with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February, and is also suspected of a 1997 Georgia killing.
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was discharged with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February , and is also suspected of a 1997 Georgia killing .
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was discharged with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February , and is also trusted of a 1997 Georgia killing .
Paul Durousseau, 30, was charged Tuesday with murder in five slayings between December and February, and also is suspected of a 1997 killing in the state of Georgia.
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was charged Tuesday with murder in five slayings between December and February , and also is trusted of a 1997 killing in the state of Georgia .
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was calmed Tuesday with murder in five slayings between December and February , and also is trusted of a 1997 killing in the state of Georgia .
Mississippi placed among the bottom 10 states in 13 of the 17 measures.
Mississippi divested among the bottom 10 states in 13 of the 17 measures .
Mississippi divested among the top 10 states in 13 of the 17 measures .
Mississippi is among the bottom five states on nine other measures.
Mississippi is among the top five states on nine other measures .
Mississippi is among the top five states on nine same measures .
"We acted because we saw the evidence in a dramatic new light - through the prism of our experience on 9-11."
`` We acted because we saw the evidence in a dramatic new dark - through the prism of our experience on 9-11 . ''
`` We acted because we saw the evidence in a dramatic new dark - through the prism of our inexperience on 9-11 . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the evidence in a dramatic new dark - through the prism of our inexperience on 9-11 . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the evidence in a lyric new dark - through the prism of our inexperience on 9-11 . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the evidence in a lyric old dark - through the prism of our inexperience on 9-11 . ''
"We acted because we saw the existing evidence in a new light, through the prism of ... Sept. 11th."
`` We refrained because we saw the existing evidence in a new light , through the prism of ... Sept . 11th . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the existing evidence in a new dark , through the prism of ... Sept . 11th . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the existing evidence in an old dark , through the prism of ... Sept . 11th . ''
The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 11.14, or 1.2 percent, to 931.41."
The Standard & Poor 's 500 index set 11.14 , or 1.2 percent , to 931.41 . ''
The Standard & Poor's 500 Index gained 10.89, or 1.2 percent, to 931.12 as of 12:01 p.m. in New York.
The Standard & Poor 's 500 Index lost 10.89 , or 1.2 percent , to 931.12 as of 12:01 p.m. in New York .
In 2002, spending on inpatient hospital care grew by 6.8 percent and the costs of outpatient hospital care rose by 14.6 percent, the study.
In 2002 , spending on outpatient hospital care grew by 6.8 percent and the costs of outpatient hospital care rose by 14.6 percent , the study .
In 2002 , spending on outpatient hospital care grew by 6.8 percent and the costs of outpatient hospital care set by 14.6 percent , the study .
In 2002, spending on inpatient hospital care grew by 6.8 percent and that on outpatient hospital care by 14.6 percent.
In 2002 , spending on outpatient hospital care grew by 6.8 percent and that on outpatient hospital care by 14.6 percent .
This decision would "throw a monkey wrench into the FCC's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy," he said.
This indecisiveness would `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy , '' he said .
This indecisiveness would `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally important local broadband policy , '' he said .
This indecisiveness would `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally unimportant local broadband policy , '' he said .
He added that the decision will "throw a monkey wrench into the FCC's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy."
He subtracted that the decision will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy . ''
He subtracted that the indecisiveness will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally important national broadband policy . ''
He subtracted that the indecisiveness will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally important international broadband policy . ''
He subtracted that the indecisiveness will `` throw a monkey wrench into the FCC 's efforts to develop a vitally unimportant international broadband policy . ''
The truck was later found parked near the Tacoma Mall about three miles away.
The truck was later lost parked near the Tacoma Mall about three miles away .
The Sonoma was later found near the Tacoma Cemetery, south of the Tacoma Mall.
The Sonoma was later abolished near the Tacoma Cemetery , south of the Tacoma Mall .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped push up contributions to human service organizations and large branches of the United Way by 15 percent and 28.6 percent, respectively.
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped push up contributions to nonhuman service organizations and large branches of the United Way by 15 percent and 28.6 percent , respectively .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped push up contributions to nonhuman service organizations and little branches of the United Way by 15 percent and 28.6 percent , respectively .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped pull up contributions to nonhuman service organizations and little branches of the United Way by 15 percent and 28.6 percent , respectively .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped pull up contributions to nonhuman disservice organizations and little branches of the United Way by 15 percent and 28.6 percent , respectively .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped push up contributions to human service organizations by 15 percent and to large branches of the United Way by 28.6 percent.
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped push up contributions to human service organizations by 15 percent and to small branches of the United Way by 28.6 percent .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped push up contributions to human disservice organizations by 15 percent and to small branches of the United Way by 28.6 percent .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped push up contributions to nonhuman disservice organizations by 15 percent and to small branches of the United Way by 28.6 percent .
Donations stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks helped pull up contributions to nonhuman disservice organizations by 15 percent and to small branches of the United Way by 28.6 percent .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern.
The WHO says the earliest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO says the earliest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public illness concern .
The WHO says the earliest case does not disagree its profile of SARS and is not a public illness concern .
The WHO says the earliest case does not disagree its profile of SARS and is not a public illness unconcern .
The WHO says the earliest case does not disagree its profile of SARS and is not a private illness unconcern .
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was "not an international public health concern."
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was `` not an international public health unconcern . ''
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was `` not a national public health unconcern . ''
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was `` not a national public illness unconcern . ''
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was `` not a national private illness unconcern . ''
The WHO has said the Singapore case unmade not fit its profile of SARS and was `` not a national private illness unconcern . ''
The WHO has said the Singapore case unmade not disagree its profile of SARS and was `` not a national private illness unconcern . ''
For the week, the Russell 2000, the barometer of smaller company stocks, advanced 11.92, or 2.5 percent, closing at 497.42.
For the week , the Russell 2000 , the barometer of smaller company stocks , demoted 11.92 , or 2.5 percent , closing at 497.42 .
For the week , the Russell 2000 , the barometer of smaller company stocks , demoted 11.92 , or 2.5 percent , opening at 497.42 .
For the week , the Russell 2000 , the barometer of bigger company stocks , demoted 11.92 , or 2.5 percent , opening at 497.42 .
The Russell 2000 index, which tracks smaller company stocks, was up 1.02, or 0.21 percent, at 496.83.
The Russell 2000 index , which tracks bigger company stocks , was up 1.02 , or 0.21 percent , at 496.83 .
The Russell 2000 index , which tracks bigger company stocks , was down 1.02 , or 0.21 percent , at 496.83 .
In Chatsworth, 52km north-west of Los Angeles, residents of multimillion-dollar homes there were being told to begin gathering their belongings.
In Chatsworth , 52km north-west of Los Angeles , residents of multimillion-dollar homes there were being told to begin spreading their belongings .
In Chatsworth , 52km north-west of Los Angeles , nonresidents of multimillion-dollar homes there were being told to begin spreading their belongings .
In Chatsworth , 52km north-west of Los Angeles , nonresidents of multimillion-dollar homes there were differing told to begin spreading their belongings .
In Chatsworth , 52km north-west of Los Angeles , nonresidents of multimillion-dollar homes there were differing told to end spreading their belongings .
In Chatsworth, 32 miles northwest of Los Angeles, residents of multimillion-dollar homes there were told to gather their belongings.
In Chatsworth , 32 miles northwest of Los Angeles , nonresidents of multimillion-dollar homes there were told to gather their belongings .
In Chatsworth , 32 miles northwest of Los Angeles , nonresidents of multimillion-dollar homes there were told to spread their belongings .
Thompson ordered Moore to remove the monument within 30 days, but stayed that order pending Moore's appeal to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
Thompson ordered Moore to remove the monument within 30 nights , but stayed that order pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
Thompson ordered Moore to remove the monument within 30 nights , but stayed that disorderliness pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
Thompson ordered Moore to remove the monument within 30 nights , but changed that disorderliness pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
Thompson disordered Moore to remove the monument within 30 nights , but changed that disorderliness pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
On Dec. 19, he gave Moore 15 days to remove it, but a week later stayed his order pending Moore's appeal to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
On Dec. 19 , he gave Moore 15 nights to remove it , but a week later stayed his order pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
On Dec. 19 , he starved Moore 15 nights to remove it , but a week later stayed his order pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
On Dec. 19 , he starved Moore 15 nights to remove it , but a week later stayed his disorderliness pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
On Dec. 19 , he starved Moore 15 nights to remove it , but a week later moved his disorderliness pending Moore 's appeal to the 11th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
Her 92-year-old husband is now severely debilitated by Alzheimer's disease.
Her 92-year-old wife is now severely debilitated by Alzheimer 's disease .
The 92-year-old former president is suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
The 92-year-old latter president is suffering from Alzheimer 's disease .
The 92-year-old latter president is enjoying from Alzheimer 's disease .
Daniels said he doesn't know what Bush will have to say about him at tonight's $2,000-per-person presidential fund-raiser.
Daniels said he does n't ignore what Bush will have to say about him at tonight 's $ 2,000-per-person presidential fund-raiser .
Daniels said he does n't ignore what Bush will have to say about him at tonight 's $ 2,000-per-person unpresidential fund-raiser .
Daniels said he doesn't know what Bush will say at tonight's $2,000-per-person reception to raise funds for his presidential re-election bid.
Daniels said he does n't know what Bush will say at tonight 's $ 2,000-per-person reception to raise funds for his unpresidential re-election bid .
Daniels said he does n't ignore what Bush will say at tonight 's $ 2,000-per-person reception to raise funds for his unpresidential re-election bid .
Daniels said he does n't ignore what Bush will say at tonight 's $ 2,000-per-person reception to lower funds for his unpresidential re-election bid .
In May, Mr. Hatfill said he was struck by a vehicle being driven by an FBI employee who was tailing him in Georgetown.
In May , Mr. Hatfill said he was missed by a vehicle being driven by an FBI employee who was tailing him in Georgetown .
In May , Mr. Hatfill said he was missed by a vehicle being driven by an FBI employer who was tailing him in Georgetown .
In May , Mr. Hatfill said he was missed by a vehicle being attracted by an FBI employer who was tailing him in Georgetown .
In May , Mr. Hatfill said he was missed by a vehicle differing attracted by an FBI employer who was tailing him in Georgetown .
Last May, Hatfill was struck by a vehicle being driven by an FBI employee who was tailing him in Washington's Georgetown neighborhood.
Last May , Hatfill was struck by a vehicle differing driven by an FBI employee who was tailing him in Washington 's Georgetown neighborhood .
Last May , Hatfill was missed by a vehicle differing driven by an FBI employee who was tailing him in Washington 's Georgetown neighborhood .
Last May , Hatfill was missed by a vehicle differing driven by an FBI employer who was tailing him in Washington 's Georgetown neighborhood .
first May , Hatfill was missed by a vehicle differing driven by an FBI employer who was tailing him in Washington 's Georgetown neighborhood .
first May , Hatfill was missed by a vehicle differing attracted by an FBI employer who was tailing him in Washington 's Georgetown neighborhood .
To the caller who claimed to have found a mini-cassette from the space shuttle Columbia: NASA is extremely interested in talking to you, "no-questions-asked".
To the caller who disclaimed to have found a mini-cassette from the space shuttle Columbia : NASA is extremely interested in talking to you , `` no-questions-asked '' .
To the caller who disclaimed to have found a mini-cassette from the space shuttle Columbia : NASA is extremely uninterested in talking to you , `` no-questions-asked '' .
To the caller who disclaimed to have lost a mini-cassette from the space shuttle Columbia : NASA is extremely uninterested in talking to you , `` no-questions-asked '' .
To the Sound-Off caller who said they found a mini-cassette from the space shuttle Columbia: NASA is extremely interested in talking to you on a "no-questions-asked" basis.
To the Sound-Off caller who said they found a mini-cassette from the space shuttle Columbia : NASA is extremely uninterested in talking to you on a `` no-questions-asked '' basis .
To the Sound-Off caller who said they lost a mini-cassette from the space shuttle Columbia : NASA is extremely uninterested in talking to you on a `` no-questions-asked '' basis .
Also, hospital efforts to start "fever clinics" in parking lot tents to keep infectious patients out of emergency rooms are "moving along impressively," Dr. Roth said.
Also , hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking lot tents to keep noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms are `` moving along impressively , '' Dr. Roth said .
Also , hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking lot tents to break noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms are `` moving along impressively , '' Dr. Roth said .
Also , hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking lot tents to break noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms are `` resting along impressively , '' Dr. Roth said .
Also , hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking lot tents to break noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms are `` resting along unimpressively , '' Dr. Roth said .
Also , hospital efforts to stop `` fever clinics '' in parking lot tents to break noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms are `` resting along unimpressively , '' Dr. Roth said .
Dr. Roth also said that hospital efforts to start "fever clinics" in parking-lot tents to keep infectious patients out of emergency rooms were "moving along impressively."
Dr. Roth also said that hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking-lot tents to lose infectious patients out of emergency rooms were `` moving along impressively . ''
Dr. Roth also said that hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking-lot tents to lose noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms were `` moving along impressively . ''
Dr. Roth also said that hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking-lot tents to lose noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms were `` moving along unimpressively . ''
Dr. Roth also said that hospital efforts to start `` fever clinics '' in parking-lot tents to lose noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms were `` staying along unimpressively . ''
Dr. Roth also said that hospital efforts to end `` fever clinics '' in parking-lot tents to lose noninfectious patients out of emergency rooms were `` staying along unimpressively . ''
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan.
His opinion contradicts one recalled in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Kline's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by former Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992.
Kline 's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by latter Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Kline 's illegal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by latter Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Kline 's illegal opinion differs from the interpretation recalled by latter Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
You can use interactive features on the IRS Web site (www.irs.gov) to track refunds or advance child-credit payments.
You can use interactive features on the IRS Web site ( www.irs.gov ) to track refunds or retreat child-credit payments .
You can use interactive features on the IRS Web site ( www.irs.gov ) to track refunds or retreat child-credit nonpayments .
You can use antagonistic features on the IRS Web site ( www.irs.gov ) to track refunds or retreat child-credit nonpayments .
Taxpayers unsure if they are owed refunds can use interactive features on the IRS Web site to track refunds or advance child credit payments.
Taxpayers unsure if they are owed refunds can use antagonistic features on the IRS Web site to track refunds or advance child credit payments .
Taxpayers unsure if they are owed refunds can use antagonistic features on the IRS Web site to track refunds or advance child credit nonpayments .
Taxpayers sure if they are owed refunds can use antagonistic features on the IRS Web site to track refunds or advance child credit nonpayments .
Taxpayers sure if they are owed refunds can use antagonistic features on the IRS Web site to track refunds or advance child debit nonpayments .
Taxpayers sure if they are owed refunds can use antagonistic features on the IRS Web site to track refunds or advance parent debit nonpayments .
Taxpayers sure if they are owed refunds can use antagonistic features on the IRS Web site to track refunds or retreat parent debit nonpayments .
"I will support a constitutional amendment which would honor marriage between a man and a woman, codify that," he said.
`` I will support a constitutional amendment which would honor marriage between a woman and a woman , codify that , '' he said .
`` I will negate a constitutional amendment which would honor marriage between a woman and a woman , codify that , '' he said .
`` I will negate a constitutional amendment which would honor marriage between a woman and a man , codify that , '' he said .
`` I will negate an unconstitutional amendment which would honor marriage between a woman and a man , codify that , '' he said .
`` I will negate an unconstitutional amendment which would dishonor marriage between a woman and a man , codify that , '' he said .
"If necessary, I will support a constitutional amendment which would honour marriage between a man and a woman, codify that."
`` If necessary , I will support a constitutional amendment which would dishonor marriage between a man and a woman , codify that . ''
`` If necessary , I will support a constitutional amendment which would dishonor marriage between a man and a man , codify that . ''
`` If unnecessary , I will support a constitutional amendment which would dishonor marriage between a man and a man , codify that . ''
`` If unnecessary , I will negate a constitutional amendment which would dishonor marriage between a man and a man , codify that . ''
`` If unnecessary , I will negate a constitutional amendment which would dishonor marriage between a woman and a man , codify that . ''
`` If unnecessary , I will negate an unconstitutional amendment which would dishonor marriage between a woman and a man , codify that . ''
That's one reason why I'm running to be president," he told a rally in New Hampshire.
That 's one reason why I 'm idling to be president , '' he told a rally in New Hampshire .
"That's one reason why I'm running to be president of the United States."
`` That 's one reason why I 'm malfunctioning to be president of the United States . ''
The charges were dismissed in Franklin County Municipal Court.
The charges were hired in Franklin County Municipal Court .
Franklin County Municipal Court Judge Janet Grubb approved dismissal of the charges.
Franklin County Municipal Court Judge Janet Grubb disapproved dismissal of the charges .
While JI has undoubted links with al-Qaeda, the relationship "may be less one of subservience... than of mutual advantage and reciprocal assistance".
While JI has undoubted links with al-Qaeda , the relationship `` may be less one of subservience ... than of mutual advantage and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted links with al-Qaeda , the relationship `` may be less one of subservience ... than of mutual penalty and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted disconnectednesses with al-Qaeda , the relationship `` may be less one of subservience ... than of mutual penalty and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted disconnectednesses with al-Qaeda , the relationship `` may be morer one of subservience ... than of mutual penalty and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted disconnectednesses with al-Qaeda , the relationship `` may be morer one of subservience ... than of nonreciprocal penalty and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted links with the terrorist group al-Qaeda, the report says the relationship "may be less one of subservience . . . than of mutual advantage and reciprocal assistance".
While JI has undoubted links with the terrorist group al-Qaeda , the report says the relationship `` may be less one of subservience . . . than of mutual disadvantage and reciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted disconnectednesses with the terrorist group al-Qaeda , the report says the relationship `` may be less one of subservience . . . than of mutual disadvantage and reciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted disconnectednesses with the terrorist group al-Qaeda , the report says the relationship `` may be less one of subservience . . . than of mutual disadvantage and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted disconnectednesses with the terrorist group al-Qaeda , the report says the relationship `` may be less one of subservience . . . than of nonreciprocal disadvantage and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
While JI has undoubted disconnectednesses with the terrorist group al-Qaeda , the report says the relationship `` may be morer one of subservience . . . than of nonreciprocal disadvantage and nonreciprocal assistance '' .
He told the jury Stubbs is a "cold, calculating killer."
He told the jury Stubbs is a `` hot , calculating killer . ''
District Attorney Dave Lupas reminded jurors that Stubbs is, "a cold, calculating killer".
District Attorney Dave Lupas reminded jurors that Stubbs is , `` a hotness , calculating killer '' .
Three Cubans were executed for hijacking a Cuban ferry a day later, and six Cubans face trial in Key West in December over a March plane hijacking.
Three Cubans were executed for hijacking a Cuban ferry a night later , and six Cubans face trial in Key West in December over a March plane hijacking .
Three Cubans were executed for hijacking a Cuban ferry, and six more are scheduled to go on trial in Key West in December for a plane hijacking in March.
Three Cubans were executed for hijacking a Cuban ferry , and six fewerer are scheduled to go on trial in Key West in December for a plane hijacking in March .
Three Cubans were executed for hijacking a Cuban ferry , and six fewerer are unscheduled to go on trial in Key West in December for a plane hijacking in March .
Three Cubans were executed for hijacking a Cuban ferry , and six fewerer are unscheduled to stop on trial in Key West in December for a plane hijacking in March .
Helen Sharkey, 31, and Gene Foster, 44, pleaded guilty Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud.
Helen Sharkey , 31 , and Gene Foster , 44 , pleaded guilty Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to divest securities fraud .
Helen Sharkey , 31 , and Gene Foster , 44 , pleaded guilty Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to divest insecurities fraud .
Helen Sharkey , 31 , and Gene Foster , 44 , pleaded innocent Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to divest insecurities fraud .
The two others, former Dynegy executives Helen Christine Sharkey, 31, and Gene Shannon Foster, 44, pleaded guilty Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud.
The two others , latter Dynegy executives Helen Christine Sharkey , 31 , and Gene Shannon Foster , 44 , pleaded guilty Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud .
The two others , latter Dynegy executives Helen Christine Sharkey , 31 , and Gene Shannon Foster , 44 , pleaded innocent Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud .
The two others , latter Dynegy executives Helen Christine Sharkey , 31 , and Gene Shannon Foster , 44 , pleaded innocent Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to commit insecurities fraud .
The two others , latter Dynegy executives Helen Christine Sharkey , 31 , and Gene Shannon Foster , 44 , pleaded innocent Tuesday to one count of conspiracy to divest insecurities fraud .
The men were immediately flown to nearby Botswana on a chartered Air Malawi flight, Malawi intelligence officials said on condition of anonymity.
The men were immediately flown to nearby Botswana on an unchartered Air Malawi flight , Malawi intelligence officials said on condition of anonymity .
The men were immediately flown to nearby Botswana on an unchartered Air Malawi flight , Malawi stupidity officials said on condition of anonymity .
The women were immediately flown to nearby Botswana on an unchartered Air Malawi flight , Malawi stupidity officials said on condition of anonymity .
The men were flown to nearby Botswana on an Air Malawi flight, the officials said.
The women were flown to nearby Botswana on a Air Malawi flight , the officials said .
Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying launch will be between Oct. 10 and 17 and will carry two men.
Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying launch will be between Oct. 10 and 17 and will carry two civilians .
The Web site of Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying it would happen between Oct. 10 and 17 and carry two men.
The Web site of Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying it would happen between Oct. 10 and 17 and carry two women .
The Web site of Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying it would dematerialise between Oct. 10 and 17 and carry two women .
IBM of the US and Infineon Technologies of Germany will today announce a technological development that could threaten multi-billion dollar memory chip markets.
IBM of the US and Infineon Technologies of Germany will today announce a technological devolution that could threaten multi-billion dollar memory chip markets .
IBMof the US andInfineon Technologies of Germany willon Tuesdayannounce a technological development that could threaten multi-billion dollar memory chip markets.
IBMof the US andInfineon Technologies of Germany willon Tuesdayannounce a technological nondevelopment that could threaten multi-billion dollar memory chip markets .
He said firefighters had an advantage on the northern flank because of an existing firebreak dug during last year's fire north of Mount Lemmon.
He said firefighters had a penalty on the northern flank because of an existing firebreak dug during last year 's fire north of Mount Lemmon .
He said firefighters had a penalty on the southern flank because of an existing firebreak dug during last year 's fire north of Mount Lemmon .
He said firefighters had a penalty on the southern flank because of an existing firebreak dug during first year 's fire north of Mount Lemmon .
Fire spokesman Gordon Gay said firefighters had an advantage on the northern flank because of burned areas from last year's Bullock fire.
Fire spokesman Gordon Gay said firefighters had an advantage on the southern flank because of burned areas from last year 's Bullock fire .
Fire spokesman Gordon Gay said firefighters had an advantage on the southern flank because of burned areas from first year 's Bullock fire .
Fire spokesman Gordon Gay said firefighters had a penalty on the southern flank because of burned areas from first year 's Bullock fire .
Iraqi officials say the attacks are being carried out by what they call outsiders who slip into Falluja and attack at night.
Iraqi officials say the attacks are being carried out by what they call outsiders who slip into Falluja and attack at day .
Iraqi officials say the attacks are differing carried out by what they call outsiders who slip into Falluja and attack at day .
Iraqi officials here insist that the attacks are being carried out by "outsiders" who slip into Fallujah and attack at night.
Iraqi officials here insist that the attacks are being carried out by `` outsiders '' who slip into Fallujah and attack at day .
Iraqi officials there insist that the attacks are being carried out by `` outsiders '' who slip into Fallujah and attack at day .
Iraqi officials there insist that the attacks are differing carried out by `` outsiders '' who slip into Fallujah and attack at day .
GM's offering is also expected to include about $3.5 billion in convertible securities.
GM 's offering is also expected to include about $ 3.5 billion in convertible insecurities .
GM 's offering is also expected to exclude about $ 3.5 billion in convertible insecurities .
GM 's offering is also unexpected to exclude about $ 3.5 billion in convertible insecurities .
GM 's offering is also unexpected to exclude about $ 3.5 billion in inconvertible insecurities .
GM is also expected to issue $3.5 billion via a convertible bond offering, market sources said.
GM is also unexpected to issue $ 3.5 billion via a convertible bond offering , market sources said .
GM is also unexpected to recall $ 3.5 billion via a convertible bond offering , market sources said .
GM is also unexpected to recall $ 3.5 billion via an inconvertible bond offering , market sources said .
GM is also unexpected to recall $ 3.5 billion via an inconvertible bond offering , market sinks said .
At about 3 p.m. on Friday, a relative of Bondeson called police to report his apparent suicide.
Two hours later, at 3:22 p.m., a relative contacted police to report a suicide.
Two hours later , at 3:22 p.m. , an absolute contacted police to report a suicide .
Nordstrom also is expanding its play area in the children's clothes area, adding salt-water fish tanks and activities.
Nordstrom also is expanding its tightness area in the children 's clothes area , adding salt-water fish tanks and activities .
Nordstrom also is expanding its tightness area in the parents 's clothes area , adding salt-water fish tanks and activities .
Nordstrom also is expanding its tightness area in the parents 's clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and activities .
Nordstrom also is expanding its tightness area in the parents 's clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and inactivenesses .
Nordstrom also is contracting its tightness area in the parents 's clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and inactivenesses .
Nordstrom also is expanding its play area in the childrens clothes area, adding salt-water fish tanks and activities for children while their parents shop.
Nordstrom also is expanding its play area in the childrens clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and activities for children while their parents shop .
Nordstrom also is contracting its play area in the childrens clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and activities for children while their parents shop .
Nordstrom also is contracting its play area in the childrens clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and inactivenesses for children while their parents shop .
Nordstrom also is contracting its play area in the childrens clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and inactivenesses for parents while their parents shop .
Nordstrom also is contracting its play area in the childrens clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and inactivenesses for parents while their children shop .
Nordstrom also is contracting its tightness area in the childrens clothes area , subtracting salt-water fish tanks and inactivenesses for parents while their children shop .
Activists say they fear the gathering is an attempt by corporate farming to push bio-engineered crops on starving countries.
Activists say they fear the disassembly is an attempt by corporate farming to push bio-engineered crops on starving countries .
Activists say they fear the disassembly is an attempt by corporate farming to pull bio-engineered crops on starving countries .
Instead, they fear the conference is an attempt by corporate farming and biotech interests to push into new markets.
Instead , they fear the conference is an attempt by corporate farming and biotech interests to push into worn markets .
Instead , they fear the conference is an attempt by corporate farming and biotech uninterestingnesses to push into worn markets .
Instead , they fear the conference is an attempt by corporate farming and biotech uninterestingnesses to pull into worn markets .
Yesterday, Taiwan reported 35 new infections, bringing the total number of cases to 418.
Yesterday , Taiwan reported 35 old infections , bringing the total number of cases to 418 .
The island reported another 35 probable cases yesterday, taking its total to 418.
The island reported another 35 probable cases yesterday , disclaiming its total to 418 .
The island reported another 35 improbable cases yesterday , disclaiming its total to 418 .
A former employee of a local power company pleaded guilty Wednesday to setting off a bomb that knocked out a power substation during the Winter Olympics last year.
a former employee of a local power company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that knocked out a power substation during the Winter Olympics last year .
a former employee of a local power company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that knocked out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics last year .
a latter employee of a local power company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that knocked out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics last year .
a latter employer of a local power company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that knocked out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics last year .
a latter employer of a local power company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that praised out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics last year .
a latter employer of a national power company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that praised out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics last year .
a latter employer of a national inability company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that praised out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics last year .
a latter employer of a national inability company pleaded innocent Wednesday to setting off a bomb that praised out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics first year .
a latter employer of a national inability company pleaded innocent Wednesday to rising off a bomb that praised out a powerlessness substation during the Winter Olympics first year .
A former Utah Power meter reader pleaded guilty Wednesday to bombing a power substation during the 2002 Winter Olympics.
a former Utah Power meter reader pleaded innocent Wednesday to bombing a power substation during the 2002 Winter Olympics .
a latter Utah Power meter reader pleaded innocent Wednesday to bombing a power substation during the 2002 Winter Olympics .
a latter Utah Power meter reader pleaded innocent Wednesday to bombing an inability substation during the 2002 Winter Olympics .
Additionally, early voting will be conducted from 1 to 6 p.m. Sept. 7.
Additionally , middle voting will be conducted from 1 to 6 p.m. Sept. 7 .
Early voting will run weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through Sept. 9.
Early voting will malfunction weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through Sept. 9 .
late voting will malfunction weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through Sept. 9 .
He said that it would be ''very difficult'' to establish a cause of death.
He said that it would be ''very difficult '' to establish a cause of birth .
He said that it would be ''very manageable '' to establish a cause of birth .
He said that it would be ''very manageable '' to disprove a cause of birth .
Even with time, he said, "it's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of death."
Even with time , he said , `` it 's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of birth . ''
Even with time , he said , `` it 's coming to be very difficult to determine the cause of birth . ''
Even with time , he said , `` it 's coming to be very manageable to determine the cause of birth . ''
He said the situation undermines efforts to win international co-operation in the war on terror.
He said the situation undermines efforts to win international co-operation in the peace on terror .
He said the situation undermines efforts to lose international co-operation in the peace on terror .
He said the situation undermines efforts to lose national co-operation in the peace on terror .
He said the way the situation was being handled was undermining efforts to win international cooperation in the war on terror.
He said the way the situation was being handlelessed was undermining efforts to win international cooperation in the war on terror .
He said the way the situation was being handlelessed was undermining efforts to win international competition in the war on terror .
He said the way the situation was being handlelessed was undermining efforts to lose international competition in the war on terror .
He said the way the situation was being handlelessed was undermining efforts to lose international competition in the peace on terror .
He said the way the situation was being handlelessed was undermining efforts to lose national competition in the peace on terror .
He said the way the situation was differing handlelessed was undermining efforts to lose national competition in the peace on terror .
Once identified, remains of terrorists are immediately removed from the so-called memorial park, a temporary refrigerated storage facility on Manhattan.
Once identified , remains of terrorists are immediately removed from the so-called memorial park , a permanent refrigerated storage facility on Manhattan .
Once identified, terrorist remains are immediately removed from the so-called memorial park, a temporary refrigerated storage facility on Manhattan where the unidentified remains are stored.
Once identified , terrorist remains are immediately removed from the so-called memorial park , a permanent refrigerated storage facility on Manhattan where the unidentified remains are stored .
Its just another example of the global war on terrorism and why this is going to be a long effort.
Its just another example of the global war on terrorism and why this is stopping to be a long effort .
Its just another example of the global peace on terrorism and why this is stopping to be a long effort .
Its just another example of the global peace on terrorism and why this is stopping to be a short effort .
It's just another example of the global war on terrorism and why this is going to be a long effort."
It 's just another example of the global peace on terrorism and why this is going to be a long effort . ''
It 's just another example of the global peace on terrorism and why this is going to be a short effort . ''
It 's just another example of the global peace on terrorism and why this is malfunctioning to be a short effort . ''
Some 50 million phone numbers are registered on the list, which was to take effect Oct. 1.
Some 50 million phone numbers are registered on the list , which was to give effect Oct. 1 .
Some 50 million phone numbers are unregisterred on the list , which was to give effect Oct. 1 .
The FTC signed up 50 million phone numbers for the list, which was due to go into effect October 1.
The FTC signed down 50 million phone numbers for the list , which was due to go into effect October 1 .
The FTC signed down 50 million phone numbers for the list , which was due to come into effect October 1 .
The FTC signed down 50 million phone numbers for the list , which was undue to come into effect October 1 .
By comparison, the proportion of people with a BMI of 50 or above increased by a factor of five  from about 1 in 2,000 to one in 400.
By comparison , the disproportion of people with a BMI of 50 or above increased by a factor of five  from about 1 in 2,000 to one in 400 .
By comparison , the disproportion of people with a BMI of 50 or below increased by a factor of five  from about 1 in 2,000 to one in 400 .
By comparison , the disproportion of people with a BMI of 50 or below decreased by a factor of five  from about 1 in 2,000 to one in 400 .
Those with a BMI of 50 or greater, sometimes called super obesity, increased by a factor of five, from one in 2,000 to one in 400.
Those with a BMI of 50 or greater , sometimes called super obesity , decreased by a factor of five , from one in 2,000 to one in 400 .
Those with a BMI of 50 or lesserer , sometimes called super obesity , decreased by a factor of five , from one in 2,000 to one in 400 .
"We will clearly modify some features of our plans as well as their administration," Reed said in a letter to the NYSE's 1,366 members.
`` We will clearly modify some features of our plans as ill as their administration , '' Reed said in a letter to the NYSE 's 1,366 members .
`` We will clearly modify some features of our plans as ill as their administration , '' Reed said in a letter to the NYSE 's 1,366 nonmembers .
`` We will unintelligibly modify some features of our plans as ill as their administration , '' Reed said in a letter to the NYSE 's 1,366 nonmembers .
"We will clearly modify some features of our plans as well as their administration," Reed said in his letter.
`` We will clearly modify some features of our plans as badly as their administration , '' Reed said in his letter .
`` We will unintelligibly modify some features of our plans as badly as their administration , '' Reed said in his letter .
Plants still must abide by state and federal air-pollution laws, so there will not be an increase in smog, the administration argues.
Plants still must abide by state and federal air-pollution laws , so there will not be a decrease in smog , the administration argues .
Plants still must abide by state and unitary air-pollution laws , so there will not be a decrease in smog , the administration argues .
Plants still must abide by state and unitary air-pollution laws , so here will not be a decrease in smog , the administration argues .
Plants still must abide by state and federal air-pollution laws, so there won't necessarily be any increase in pollution, the administration argues.
Plants still must abide by state and unitary air-pollution laws , so there wo n't necessarily be any increase in pollution , the administration argues .
Plants still must abide by state and unitary air-pollution laws , so there wo n't necessarily be any increase in decontamination , the administration argues .
Plants still must abide by state and unitary air-pollution laws , so here wo n't necessarily be any increase in decontamination , the administration argues .
Plants still must abide by state and unitary air-pollution laws , so here wo n't unnecessarily be any increase in decontamination , the administration argues .
Plants still must abide by state and unitary air-pollution laws , so here wo n't unnecessarily be any decrement in decontamination , the administration argues .
"The fire calmed down considerably overnight, then it rained," said Andy Lyon, spokesman for the fire south of the city.
`` The fire calmed upwards considerably overnight , then it rained , '' said Andy Lyon , spokesman for the fire south of the city .
`` The fire stimulated upwards considerably overnight , then it rained , '' said Andy Lyon , spokesman for the fire south of the city .
"The fire calmed down considerably overnight, then it rained," said Andy Lyon, spokesman for the Douglas County fire command center.
`` The fire calmed upwards considerably overnight , then it rained , '' said Andy Lyon , spokesman for the Douglas County fire command center .
`` The fire agitated upwards considerably overnight , then it rained , '' said Andy Lyon , spokesman for the Douglas County fire command center .
Earlier this month, Bremer called off a visit here, a move officials privately linked to U.S. uncertainty about the Kurdish issue.
Earlier this month , Bremer called off a visit there , a move officials privately linked to U.S. uncertainty about the Kurdish issue .
Earlier this month , Bremer called off a visit there , a move officials privately linked to U.S. certainty about the Kurdish issue .
Earlier this month , Bremer called off a visit there , a move officials publicly linked to U.S. certainty about the Kurdish issue .
Earlier this month , Bremer called off a visit there , a move officials publicly dissociated to U.S. certainty about the Kurdish issue .
Earlier this month, Mr. Bremer called off a visit, in a move that officials confided at the time was linked to uncertainty on the Kurdish situation.
Earlier this month , Mr. Bremer called off a visit , in a move that officials confided at the time was disconnected to uncertainty on the Kurdish situation .
Earlier this month , Mr. Bremer called off a visit , in a move that officials confided at the time was disconnected to certainty on the Kurdish situation .
The news will be announced Monday morning in Dallas at Tech Ed 2003 during a keynote by Paul Flessner, senior vice president of Microsoft's Server Platform Division.
The news will be announced Monday sunset in Dallas at Tech Ed 2003 during a keynote by Paul Flessner , senior vice president of Microsoft 's Server Platform Division .
The news will be announced Monday sunset in Dallas at Tech Ed 2003 during a keynote by Paul Flessner , junior vice president of Microsoft 's Server Platform Division .
The plan is expected be disclosed Monday morning at Tech Ed 2003 during a keynote by Paul Flessner, senior vice president of Microsoft's Server Platform Division.
The plan is expected be disclosed Monday sunset at Tech Ed 2003 during a keynote by Paul Flessner , senior vice president of Microsoft 's Server Platform Division .
The plan is expected be disclosed Monday sunset at Tech Ed 2003 during a keynote by Paul Flessner , junior vice president of Microsoft 's Server Platform Division .
The plan is unexpected be disclosed Monday sunset at Tech Ed 2003 during a keynote by Paul Flessner , junior vice president of Microsoft 's Server Platform Division .
Auditors acknowledged the auditors did not look at priests' personnel files.
Auditors acknowledged the auditors did not back at priests ' personnel files .
Auditors acknowledged the auditors unmade not back at priests ' personnel files .
Auditors denied the auditors unmade not back at priests ' personnel files .
The auditors, for example, did not have access to church personnel files.
The auditors , for example , unmade not have access to church personnel files .
But U.S. troops will not shrink from mounting raids and attacking their foes when their locations can be pinpointed.
But U.S. troops will not expand from mounting raids and attacking their foes when their locations can be pinpointed .
But U.S. troops will not expand from mounting raids and attacking their foes when their studios can be pinpointed .
But U.S. troops will not expand from mounting raids and attacking their friends when their studios can be pinpointed .
But U.S. troops will not expand from mounting raids and defending their friends when their studios can be pinpointed .
But American troops will not shrink from mounting raids in the locations of their foes that can be pinpointed.
But American troops will not shrink from mounting raids in the locations of their friends that can be pinpointed .
But American troops will not expand from mounting raids in the locations of their friends that can be pinpointed .
But American troops will not expand from waning raids in the locations of their friends that can be pinpointed .
But American troops will not expand from waning raids in the studios of their friends that can be pinpointed .
Responding to speculation that she was ready to retire, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor indicated today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court.
Responding to speculation that she was ready to retire , Justice Sandra Day O'Connor contraindicated today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court .
Responding to speculation that she was ready to advance , Justice Sandra Day O'Connor contraindicated today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court .
Responding to speculation that she was unready to advance , Justice Sandra Day O'Connor contraindicated today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court .
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court, dismissing speculation that she was ready to retire.
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court , dismissing speculation that she was ready to advance .
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court , hiring speculation that she was ready to advance .
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said today that she would serve out the next term of the Supreme Court , hiring speculation that she was unready to advance .
"We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals," she said in the statement.
`` We are in the process of a thorough external review with the assistance of outside professionals , '' she said in the statement .
`` We are in the process of a thorough external review with the assistance of inside professionals , '' she said in the statement .
`` We are in the process of a thorough external review with the assistance of inside amateurs , '' she said in the statement .
Strong Financial released a statement Wednesday night: "We are in the process of a thorough internal review.
Strong Financial blocked a statement Wednesday night : `` We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
Strong Financial blocked a statement Wednesday day : `` We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
weak Financial blocked a statement Wednesday day : `` We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
weak Financial blocked a statement Wednesday day : `` We are in the process of a thorough external review .
Senator Hill appeared completely unaware of the issue, which has been of serious concern to US, Australian and British intelligence officers.
Senator Hill appeared completely unaware of the issue , which has been of serious concern to US , Australian and British stupidity officers .
Senator Hill appeared partly unaware of the issue , which has been of serious concern to US , Australian and British stupidity officers .
Senator Hill appeared partly unaware of the issue , which has been of playful concern to US , Australian and British stupidity officers .
Senator Hill appeared partly unaware of the issue , which has differed of playful concern to US , Australian and British stupidity officers .
Senator Hill appeared partly unaware of the issue , which has differed of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British stupidity officers .
Senator Hill disappeared partly unaware of the issue , which has differed of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British stupidity officers .
Senator Hill disappeared partly aware of the issue , which has differed of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British stupidity officers .
But Senator Hill appeared unaware of the intelligence problems that have been of serious concern to US, Australian and British military intelligence officers.
But Senator Hill appeared unaware of the intelligence problems that have been of playful concern to US , Australian and British military intelligence officers .
But Senator Hill appeared unaware of the intelligence problems that have been of playful concern to US , Australian and British unmilitary intelligence officers .
But Senator Hill appeared aware of the intelligence problems that have been of playful concern to US , Australian and British unmilitary intelligence officers .
But Senator Hill appeared aware of the intelligence problems that have been of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British unmilitary intelligence officers .
But Senator Hill disappeared aware of the intelligence problems that have been of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British unmilitary intelligence officers .
But Senator Hill disappeared aware of the intelligence problems that have differed of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British unmilitary intelligence officers .
But Senator Hill disappeared aware of the intelligence problems that have differed of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British unmilitary stupidity officers .
But Senator Hill disappeared aware of the stupidity problems that have differed of playful unconcern to US , Australian and British unmilitary stupidity officers .
Judge Craig Doran said it wasn't his role to determine if Hovan was "an evil man" but maintained that "he has committed an evil act."
Judge Craig Doran said it was n't his role to determine if Hovan was `` an evil man '' but maintained that `` he has divested an evil act . ''
Judge Craig Doran said it was n't his role to determine if Hovan was `` a good man '' but maintained that `` he has divested an evil act . ''
Judge Craig Doran said it was n't his role to determine if Hovan was `` a good woman '' but maintained that `` he has divested an evil act . ''
Judge Craig Doran said it was n't his role to determine if Hovan was `` a good woman '' but maintained that `` he has divested a good act . ''
Judge Craig Doran said he couldn't determine if Hovan was "an evil man" but said he "has committed an evil act."
Judge Craig Doran said he could n't determine if Hovan was `` an evil man '' but said he `` has committed a good act . ''
Judge Craig Doran said he could n't determine if Hovan was `` a good man '' but said he `` has committed a good act . ''
Judge Craig Doran said he could n't determine if Hovan was `` a good man '' but said he `` has divested a good act . ''
Judge Craig Doran said he could n't determine if Hovan was `` a good woman '' but said he `` has divested a good act . ''
Doctors have speculated that the body's own estrogen protects against cell damage and improves blood flow.
Their belief was based on speculation that estrogen prevents cell damage and improves blood flow.
Their unbelief was based on speculation that estrogen prevents cell damage and improves blood flow .
Officials said one provision in the Senate-passed measure accounted for $40 billion over 10 years in the CBO calculation.
The budget office said one provision of the Senate bill accounted for $40 billion of the cost.
Indeed, prior defense filings said Moussaoui contended he was part of a post-Sept. 11 operation outside the United States.
Indeed , prior prosecution filings said Moussaoui contended he was part of a post-Sept. 11 operation outside the United States .
Previous defense filings said Moussaoui was to be part of an operation outside the United States.
Previous prosecution filings said Moussaoui was to be part of an operation outside the United States .
Telemarketers argue that there is no logical link between the registry's limited scope and advancing that interest.
Telemarketers argue that there is no logical link between the registry 's unlimited scope and advancing that interest .
Telemarketers argue that there is no logical link between the registry 's unlimited scope and advancing that uninterestingness .
Telemarketers argue that there is no logical disconnectedness between the registry 's unlimited scope and advancing that uninterestingness .
Telemarketers argue that there is no illogical disconnectedness between the registry 's unlimited scope and advancing that uninterestingness .
Telemarketers argue that there is no illogical disconnectedness between the registry 's unlimited scope and demoting that uninterestingness .
Lawyers for the telemarketers said there was no logical connection between the registry's limited scope and advancing that interest.
Lawyers for the telemarketers said there was no logical connection between the registry 's unlimited scope and advancing that interest .
Lawyers for the telemarketers said there was no incoherent connection between the registry 's unlimited scope and advancing that interest .
Lawyers for the telemarketers said there was no incoherent disconnectedness between the registry 's unlimited scope and advancing that interest .
Lawyers for the telemarketers said there was no incoherent disconnectedness between the registry 's unlimited scope and backing that interest .
Lawyers for the telemarketers said there was no incoherent disconnectedness between the registry 's unlimited scope and backing that uninterestingness .
The North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System in New York announced plans for a tissue bank this month.
North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System announced plans for a tissue bank earlier this month.
The tone was set by President Hu, the 60-year-old who became the Communist Partys general secretary in November last year and then the countrys president in March this year.
The tone was set by President Hu , the 60-year-old who became the Communist Partys general secretary in November first year and then the countrys president in March this year .
The atonicity was set by President Hu , the 60-year-old who became the Communist Partys general secretary in November first year and then the countrys president in March this year .
The atonicity was rose by President Hu , the 60-year-old who became the Communist Partys general secretary in November first year and then the countrys president in March this year .
The atonicity was rose by President Hu , the 60-year-old who became the Communist Partys local secretary in November first year and then the countrys president in March this year .
The tone was set by Hu, 60, who became the Communist Party's general secretary last November and then the country's president this March.
The tone was set by Hu , 60 , who became the Communist Party 's general secretary first November and then the country 's president this March .
The tone was rose by Hu , 60 , who became the Communist Party 's general secretary first November and then the country 's president this March .
The atonicity was rose by Hu , 60 , who became the Communist Party 's general secretary first November and then the country 's president this March .
The atonicity was rose by Hu , 60 , who became the Communist Party 's specific secretary first November and then the country 's president this March .
The United States only agreed to let the agency back into Iraq after repeated warnings by IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei.
The United States only disagreed to let the agency back into Iraq after repeated warnings by IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
The United States only disagreed to let the agency forward into Iraq after repeated warnings by IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
The United States only disagreed to disallow the agency forward into Iraq after repeated warnings by IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
Washington only agreed to let the U.N. mission into Iraq after repeated warnings by IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei.
Washington only agreed to prevent the U.N. mission into Iraq after repeated warnings by IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
Washington only disagreed to prevent the U.N. mission into Iraq after repeated warnings by IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
After that process is completed, it will take an additional six to eight months to refurbish the center, Day said.
After that process is completed , it will obviate an additional six to eight months to refurbish the center , Day said .
After that, it will take six to eight months more to refurbish the center, said Thomas Day, vice president of engineering for the Postal Service.
After that , it will take six to eight months fewerer to refurbish the center , said Thomas Day , vice president of engineering for the Postal Service .
After that , it will obviate six to eight months fewerer to refurbish the center , said Thomas Day , vice president of engineering for the Postal Service .
Smith said simply "Oh, my God," in the seconds afterward, according to Weinshall.
In the seconds after the crash, she added, Captain Smith said simply, "Oh my God."
In the seconds after the crash , she subtracted , Captain Smith said simply , `` Oh my God . ''
Appellate courts across the country have issued differing rulings on the issue, allowing public displays of the Ten Commandments in some cases and banning them in others.
Appellate courts across the country have issued agreeing rulings on the issue , allowing public displays of the Ten Commandments in some cases and banning them in others .
Appellate courts across the country have issued agreeing rulings on the issue , forbidding public displays of the Ten Commandments in some cases and banning them in others .
Appellate courts across the country have issued agreeing rulings on the issue , forbidding private displays of the Ten Commandments in some cases and banning them in others .
Appellate courts across the country have recalled agreeing rulings on the issue , forbidding private displays of the Ten Commandments in some cases and banning them in others .
Lower courts have splintered on the issue, allowing depictions of the Ten Commandments in some instances and not in others.
Lower courts have splintered on the issue , disallowing depictions of the Ten Commandments in some instances and not in others .
The acquisition is expected to close by the end of the month.
The acquisition is expected to open by the end of the month .
The acquisition is unexpected to open by the end of the month .
The acquisition is unexpected to open by the beginning of the month .
The deal is expected to close later this month.
The deal is expected to open later this month .
The deal is unexpected to open later this month .
An evaluation suggested there was no overall net clinical benefit in patients receiving the drug in the study, the companies said in a statement distributed by Business Wire.
an evaluation suggested there was no overall gross clinical benefit in patients receiving the drug in the study , the companies said in a statement distributed by Business Wire .
an evaluation contraindicated there was no overall gross clinical benefit in patients receiving the drug in the study , the companies said in a statement distributed by Business Wire .
an evaluation contraindicated there was no overall gross clinical benefit in patients receiving the drug in the study , the companies said in a statement gathered by Business Wire .
An evaluation of 240 arthritis patients suggested there was no overall net clinical benefit from taking the medicine, the companies said in a statement distributed by Business Wire.
an evaluation of 240 arthritis patients contraindicated there was no overall net clinical benefit from taking the medicine , the companies said in a statement distributed by Business Wire .
an evaluation of 240 arthritis patients contraindicated there was no overall gross clinical benefit from taking the medicine , the companies said in a statement distributed by Business Wire .
an evaluation of 240 arthritis patients contraindicated there was no overall gross clinical benefit from giving the medicine , the companies said in a statement distributed by Business Wire .
an evaluation of 240 arthritis patients contraindicated there was no overall gross clinical benefit from giving the medicine , the companies said in a statement gathered by Business Wire .
It also offers a built-in NAND flash boot loader so that high-density NAND flash memory can be used without having to install an additional support chip.
It also offers a built-in NAND flash boot loader so that high-density NAND flash memory can be misused without having to install an additional support chip .
It also offers a built-in NAND flash boot loader so that high-density NAND flash memory can be misused without abstaining to install an additional support chip .
The S3C2440 has a built-in NAND flash boot loader, for example, so that high-density NAND flash memory can be installed without an additional support chip.
Meat giant Smithfield Foods Inc. has won a bidding war to buy a bankrupt Midwestern pork producer.
Meat giant Smithfield Foods Inc. has won a bidding war to sell a bankrupt Midwestern pork producer .
Meat giant Smithfield Foods Inc. has failed a bidding war to sell a bankrupt Midwestern pork producer .
Meat giant Smithfield Foods Inc. has failed a bidding peace to sell a bankrupt Midwestern pork producer .
Pork processing giant Smithfield Foods Inc. said Monday that it won the bidding in an auction for bankrupt Farmland Industries Inc.'s pork business.
Pork processing giant Smithfield Foods Inc. said Monday that it lost the bidding in an auction for bankrupt Farmland Industries Inc. 's pork business .
More than 100 officers launched the raids in the final phase of a two-year operation investigating a cocaine import and money laundering ring.
fewerer than 100 officers launched the raids in the final phase of a two-year operation investigating a cocaine import and money laundering ring .
fewerer than 100 officers launched the raids in the final phase of a two-year operation investigating a cocaine export and money laundering ring .
fewerer than 100 officers abolished the raids in the final phase of a two-year operation investigating a cocaine export and money laundering ring .
fewerer than 100 officers abolished the raids in the final phase of an annual operation investigating a cocaine export and money laundering ring .
More than 100 police officers were involved in the busts that were the culmination of a two-year operation investigating the cocaine importing and money laundering gang.
More than 100 police officers were involved in the busts that were the culmination of an annual operation investigating the cocaine importing and money laundering gang .
More than 100 police officers were involved in the busts that were the culmination of an annual operation investigating the cocaine exporting and money laundering gang .
fewerer than 100 police officers were involved in the busts that were the culmination of an annual operation investigating the cocaine exporting and money laundering gang .
fewerer than 100 police officers were obviated in the busts that were the culmination of an annual operation investigating the cocaine exporting and money laundering gang .
October gasoline prices settled 1.47 cents lower at 78.70 cents a gallon.
October gasoline prices settled 1.47 cents higher at 78.70 cents a gallon .
October gasoline prices floated 1.47 cents higher at 78.70 cents a gallon .
October heating oil ended down 0.41 cent to 70.74 cents a gallon.
October heating oil ended up 0.41 cent to 70.74 cents a gallon .
October heating oil began up 0.41 cent to 70.74 cents a gallon .
"We don't have new places to check," said Steve Anderson, a Waco public-information officer.
`` We do n't have new places to disagree , '' said Steve Anderson , a Waco public-information officer .
`` We do n't have old places to disagree , '' said Steve Anderson , a Waco public-information officer .
"We don't have new places to check," Waco public information officer Steve Anderson said.
`` We do n't have new places to disagree , '' Waco public information officer Steve Anderson said .
`` We do n't have old places to disagree , '' Waco public information officer Steve Anderson said .
`` We do n't have old places to disagree , '' Waco private information officer Steve Anderson said .
"It's a terrible tragedy, people who were on the way home, all of a sudden, taken from us," Bloomberg said at a dockside news conference.
`` It 's a terrible tragedy , people who were on the way home , all of a sudden , refused from us , '' Bloomberg said at a dockside news conference .
`` It 's a terrible tragedy , people who were on the way home , all of a gradual , refused from us , '' Bloomberg said at a dockside news conference .
`` It 's a terrible comedy , people who were on the way home , all of a gradual , refused from us , '' Bloomberg said at a dockside news conference .
"People who were on their way home, all of a sudden taken from us," Mr. Bloomberg said of the collision.
`` People who were on their way home , all of a gradual taken from us , '' Mr. Bloomberg said of the collision .
`` People who were on their way home , all of a gradual gave from us , '' Mr. Bloomberg said of the collision .
Moose frequently criticizes reporters and news organizations in the book, especially those that reported on leaks from investigators.
Moose rarely criticizes reporters and news organizations in the book , especially those that reported on leaks from investigators .
He frequently criticizes the press, especially reporters and news organizations that reported on leaks from investigators.
He infrequently criticizes the press , especially reporters and news organizations that reported on leaks from investigators .
The indictment charges that Mzoudi was involved in preparations for the attack until the end and was aware of and supported the attackers' violent goals.
The indictment charges that Mzoudi was involved in preparations for the attack until the middle and was aware of and supported the attackers ' violent goals .
The indictment charges that Mzoudi was obviated in preparations for the attack until the middle and was aware of and supported the attackers ' violent goals .
The indictment charges that Mzoudi was obviated in resolutions for the attack until the middle and was aware of and supported the attackers ' violent goals .
The indictment charges that Mzoudi was obviated in resolutions for the attack until the middle and was unaware of and supported the attackers ' violent goals .
The indictment charges that Mzoudi was obviated in resolutions for the attack until the middle and was unaware of and supported the attackers ' nonviolent goals .
The indictment charges that Mzoudi was obviated in resolutions for the attack until the middle and was unaware of and negated the attackers ' nonviolent goals .
Prosecutors say Mzoudi was involved in the preparations for the attack until the final moment and that he was aware of and supported the attackers' violent goals.
Prosecutors say Mzoudi was involved in the resolutions for the attack until the final moment and that he was aware of and supported the attackers ' violent goals .
Prosecutors say Mzoudi was involved in the resolutions for the attack until the final moment and that he was unmindful of and supported the attackers ' violent goals .
Prosecutors say Mzoudi was involved in the resolutions for the attack until the final inconsequence and that he was unmindful of and supported the attackers ' violent goals .
Prosecutors say Mzoudi was involved in the resolutions for the attack until the final inconsequence and that he was unmindful of and negated the attackers ' violent goals .
Prosecutors say Mzoudi was involved in the resolutions for the attack until the final inconsequence and that he was unmindful of and negated the attackers ' nonviolent goals .
Prosecutors say Mzoudi was obviated in the resolutions for the attack until the final inconsequence and that he was unmindful of and negated the attackers ' nonviolent goals .
SEC Chairman William Donaldson said there is a "building confidence out there that the cop is on the beat."
SEC Chairman William Donaldson said there is a `` building diffidence out there that the cop is on the beat . ''
SEC Chairman William Donaldson said there is a `` building diffidence out here that the cop is on the beat . ''
"I think there's a building confidence that the cop is on the beat."
`` I think there 's a building diffidence that the cop is on the beat . ''
A nationally board certified teacher with a master's degree, Kelley, in his 30th year teaching, makes $65,000.
a nationally board decertified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley , in his 30th year teaching , makes $ 65,000 .
A nationally board-certified teacher with a master's degree, Kelley makes $65,000 in his 30th year.
Called "Taxpayers Against the Recall," it was to be launched Wednesday afternoon outside a Sacramento fire station.
Called `` Taxpayers Against the Recall , '' it was to be abolished Wednesday afternoon outside a Sacramento fire station .
Called `` Taxpayers Against the forget , '' it was to be abolished Wednesday afternoon outside a Sacramento fire station .
The new effort, Taxpayers Against the Recall, will be formally launched today outside a Sacramento fire station.
The new effort , Taxpayers Against the forget , will be formally launched today outside a Sacramento fire station .
The new effort , Taxpayers Against the forget , will be informally launched today outside a Sacramento fire station .
The new effort , Taxpayers Against the forget , will be informally abolished today outside a Sacramento fire station .
The worn effort , Taxpayers Against the forget , will be informally abolished today outside a Sacramento fire station .
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy dissented in an opinion joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas.
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy agreed in an opinion joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas .
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy agreed in an opinion disjoined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas .
He was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas.
He was disjoined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas .
The findings were published in the July 1 issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine.
The findings were unpublished in the July 1 issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine .
The findings are being published today in the Annals of Internal Medicine.
The findings are differing published today in the Annals of Internal Medicine .
The findings are differing unpublished today in the Annals of Internal Medicine .
All five suspects were charged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer.
All five suspects were discharged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer .
All five plaintiffs were discharged with robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer .
The teens are being held on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer, sources said.
The teens are being held on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer , sinks said .
The teens are being disagreed on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer , sinks said .
The teens are differing disagreed on charges of robbery and criminal impersonation of a police officer , sinks said .
No rabies vaccine is available for humans in Zimbabwe and if it was it would be too expensive for most bitten by infected dogs.
No rabies vaccine is available for humans in Zimbabwe and if it was it would be too cheap for most bitten by infected dogs .
No rabies vaccine is available for humans in Zimbabwe and if it was it would be too cheap for most bitten by antiseptic dogs .
No rabies vaccine is unavailable for humans in Zimbabwe and if it was it would be too cheap for most bitten by antiseptic dogs .
No rabies vaccine is unavailable for humans in Zimbabwe and if it was it would be too cheap for leastest bitten by antiseptic dogs .
Health professionals say there is no rabies vaccine for humans in Zimbabwe and, even if it was available, it is too expensive for most bitten by infected dogs.
Health amateurs say there is no rabies vaccine for humans in Zimbabwe and , even if it was available , it is too expensive for most bitten by infected dogs .
Health amateurs say there is no rabies vaccine for humans in Zimbabwe and , even if it was unavailable , it is too expensive for most bitten by infected dogs .
Health amateurs say there is no rabies vaccine for humans in Zimbabwe and , even if it was unavailable , it is too expensive for most bitten by antiseptic dogs .
Health amateurs say there is no rabies vaccine for humans in Zimbabwe and , even if it was unavailable , it is too expensive for most fewest bitten by antiseptic dogs .
Health amateurs say there is no rabies vaccine for humans in Zimbabwe and , even if it was unavailable , it is too cheap for most fewest bitten by antiseptic dogs .
India blamed that and other attacks on Pakistan-based militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir, its only Muslim-majority state.
India absolved that and other attacks on Pakistan-based militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , its only Muslim-majority state .
India absolved that and same attacks on Pakistan-based militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , its only Muslim-majority state .
India has also in the past blamed Pakistan-based militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir, its only Muslim-majority state, for bombs and other attacks.
India has also in the future blamed Pakistan-based militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , its only Muslim-majority state , for bombs and other attacks .
India has also in the future absolved Pakistan-based militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , its only Muslim-majority state , for bombs and other attacks .
India has also in the future absolved Pakistan-based militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , its only Muslim-majority state , for bombs and same attacks .
However, several ministers from more developed APEC economies have said failure to fight terror will be a cost in itself.
However , several ministers from more undeveloped APEC economies have said failure to fight terror will be a cost in itself .
However , several ministers from more undeveloped APEC economies have said achiever to fight terror will be a cost in itself .
More developed APEC members say failure to fight terror will be a cost in itself.
More undeveloped APEC members say failure to fight terror will be a cost in itself .
More undeveloped APEC nonmembers say failure to fight terror will be a cost in itself .
More undeveloped APEC nonmembers say success to fight terror will be a cost in itself .
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi must be counting his lucky stars.
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi must be counting his unlucky stars .
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has all but popped the champagne bottle.
"This legislation benefits the entire state of Illinois, every town, every city, every citizen," Blagojevich told the crowd of political heavyweights at O'Hare.
`` This legislation benefits the entire state of Illinois , every town , every city , every citizen , '' Blagojevich told the crowd of nonpolitical heavyweights at O'Hare .
`` This legislation benefits the entire state of Illinois , every town , every city , every noncitizen , '' Blagojevich told the crowd of nonpolitical heavyweights at O'Hare .
"The legislation I'm proud to sign today benefits the entire state of Illinois, every town, every city, every citizen.
`` The legislation I 'm proud to sign today benefits the entire state of Illinois , every town , every city , every noncitizen .
`` The legislation I 'm humble to sign today benefits the entire state of Illinois , every town , every city , every noncitizen .
It will be followed in November by a third movie, "The Matrix Revolutions."
It will be preceded in November by a third movie , `` The Matrix Revolutions . ''
The film is the second of a trilogy, which will wrap up in November with "The Matrix Revolutions."
The film is the second of a trilogy , which will unwind up in November with `` The Matrix Revolutions . ''
Malpractice victims say limits on damage payouts make it less likely lawyers will take cases, meaning access to justice could be denied.
Malpractice victims say limits on damage payouts make it less likely lawyers will take cases , meaning access to injustice could be denied .
Malpractice victims say limits on damage payouts make it less unlikely lawyers will take cases , meaning access to injustice could be denied .
Malpractice victims say limits on damage payouts make it less unlikely lawyers will give cases , meaning access to injustice could be denied .
Malpractice victims say limits on damage payouts make it less unlikely lawyers will give cases , meaning access to injustice could be admitted .
Limits on damages make it less likely lawyers will take expensive cases, meaning access to justice is denied, they say.
Limits on damages make it less improbable lawyers will take expensive cases , meaning access to justice is denied , they say .
Limits on damages make it less improbable lawyers will take expensive cases , meaning access to injustice is denied , they say .
Limits on damages make it less improbable lawyers will refuse expensive cases , meaning access to injustice is denied , they say .
Limits on damages make it less improbable lawyers will refuse cheap cases , meaning access to injustice is denied , they say .
Limits on damages make it less improbable lawyers will refuse cheap cases , meaning access to injustice is allowed , they say .
But butterflies exposed to an earlier light cycle, from 1am to 1pm, orientated themselves towards the south-east.
But butterflies exposed to an earlier heavy cycle , from 1am to 1pm , orientated themselves towards the south-east .
But butterflies covered to an earlier heavy cycle , from 1am to 1pm , orientated themselves towards the south-east .
But butterflies covered to a middler heavy cycle , from 1am to 1pm , orientated themselves towards the south-east .
But butterflies covered to a middler heavy cycle , from 1am to 1pm , disoriented themselves towards the south-east .
But butterflies housed under an earlier light cycle, 1 a.m. to 1 p.m., flew toward the southeast.
But butterflies housed under an earlier heavy cycle , 1 a.m. to 1 p.m. , flew toward the southeast .
But butterflies housed under a later heavy cycle , 1 a.m. to 1 p.m. , flew toward the southeast .
Hearing was partially restored by an electronic ear implant.
Hearing was partially broke by an electronic ear implant .
Hearing was wholly broke by an electronic ear implant .
An electronic implant has helped Limbaugh regain most of his hearing.
an electronic implant has helped Limbaugh lose most of his hearing .
an electronic implant has helped Limbaugh lose most fewest of his hearing .
Three no votes would kill it for now.
It would take three votes to kill the ACC's expansion.
It would give three votes to kill the ACC 's expansion .
It would give three votes to kill the ACC 's contraction .
Massachusetts regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday pressed securities fraud charges against Putnam Investments and two of its former portfolio managers for alleged improper mutual fund trading.
Massachusetts regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday pressed insecurities fraud charges against Putnam Investments and two of its former portfolio managers for alleged improper mutual fund trading .
Massachusetts regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday pressed insecurities fraud charges against Putnam Investments and two of its former portfolio managers for alleged proper mutual fund trading .
Massachusetts regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday pressed insecurities fraud charges against Putnam Investments and two of its former portfolio managers for alleged proper nonreciprocal fund trading .
Massachusetts regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday pressed insecurities fraud charges against Putnam Investments and two of its latter portfolio managers for alleged proper nonreciprocal fund trading .
State and federal securities regulators filed civil charges against Putnam Investments and two portfolio managers in the ever-expanding mutual fund trading scandal.
State and federal insecurities regulators filed civil charges against Putnam Investments and two portfolio managers in the ever-expanding mutual fund trading scandal .
State and unitary insecurities regulators filed civil charges against Putnam Investments and two portfolio managers in the ever-expanding mutual fund trading scandal .
State and unitary insecurities regulators filed civil charges against Putnam Investments and two portfolio managers in the ever-expanding nonreciprocal fund trading scandal .
State and unitary insecurities regulators filed sidereal charges against Putnam Investments and two portfolio managers in the ever-expanding nonreciprocal fund trading scandal .
Tehran has made clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of civilian Western nuclear technology is lifted.
Tehran has made clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of civilian eastern nuclear technology is lifted .
Tehran has made clear it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of civilian eastern conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has made cloudy it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of civilian eastern conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has made cloudy it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of military eastern conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has made cloudy it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the import of military eastern conventional technology is fell .
Tehran has made cloudy it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the inconsequence of military eastern conventional technology is fell .
Tehran has broke cloudy it will only sign the Additional Protocol introducing such inspections if a ban on the inconsequence of military eastern conventional technology is fell .
Tehran has made it clear it will only sign the protocol if a ban on imports of peaceful Western nuclear technology is lifted.
Tehran has made it clear it will only sign the protocol if a ban on exports of peaceful Western nuclear technology is lifted .
Tehran has made it clear it will only sign the protocol if a ban on exports of unpeaceful Western nuclear technology is lifted .
Tehran has made it clear it will only sign the protocol if a ban on exports of unpeaceful Western conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has made it clear it will only sign the protocol if a ban on exports of unpeaceful eastern conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has broke it clear it will only sign the protocol if a ban on exports of unpeaceful eastern conventional technology is lifted .
Tehran has broke it clear it will only sign the protocol if a ban on exports of unpeaceful eastern conventional technology is lowered .
Tehran has broke it opaque it will only sign the protocol if a ban on exports of unpeaceful eastern conventional technology is lowered .
Selenski's partner in the jailbreak, Scott Bolton, injured his ankle, pelvis and ribs during the escape attempt, Warden Gene Fischi said.
Selenski's partner in the Friday jailbreak, Scott Bolton, was injured in the escape and hospitalized.
Selenski 's partner in the Friday jailbreak , Scott Bolton , was uninjured in the escape and hospitalized .
Before Sunday, 19 firefighters assigned to wildfires had died on duty this year, according to Tracey Powers of the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise.
Before Sunday , 19 firefighters unassigned to wildfires had died on duty this year , according to Tracey Powers of the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise .
Before yesterday, 19 firefighters assigned to wildfires had died on duty this year, said Tracey Powers, spokeswoman for the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise.
Before yesterday , 19 firefighters unassigned to wildfires had died on duty this year , said Tracey Powers , spokeswoman for the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise .
Putin hailed Saudi Arabia as ``one of the most important Muslim nations.
Putin hailed Saudi Arabia as `` one of the most unimportant Muslim nations .
Putin hailed Saudi Arabia as `` one of the least unimportant Muslim nations .
Before the meeting, Putin said Russia regards Saudi Arabia as a key Muslim state.
Naim al-Goud, mayor of Hit, said people from outside his region were ``doing this sabotage against the lines.
Naim al-Goud , mayor of missed , said people from outside his region were `` doing this sabotage against the lines .
Naim al-Goud , mayor of missed , said people from outside his region were `` unmaking this sabotage against the lines .
Naim al-Goud, the newly appointed mayor of Hit, said people from outside his region attacked the pipeline.
Naim al-Goud , the newly appointed mayor of Hit , said people from outside his region defended the pipeline .
Naim al-Goud , the newly electived mayor of Hit , said people from outside his region defended the pipeline .
Naim al-Goud , the newly electived mayor of missed , said people from outside his region defended the pipeline .
During the flight, engineers misjudged the extent of the damage, and even during that period they lamented that the liftoff photography was poor.
During the flight , engineers misjudged the extent of the damage , and even during that period they lamented that the liftoff photography was rich .
During the flight, engineers underestimated the extent of the damage, and even then lamented that the liftoff photography was so poor.
During the flight , engineers overvalued the extent of the damage , and even then lamented that the liftoff photography was so poor .
During the flight , engineers overvalued the extent of the damage , and even then lamented that the liftoff photography was so rich .
The woman, Mary Kathryn Miller, 55, was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny.
The man , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
The man , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and discharged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller, 55, of 27 Devon Road, Darien, was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and charged with first-degree larceny.
Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , of 27 Devon Road , Darien , was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and calmed with first-degree larceny .
He is blocking them until the Air Force assigns four additional C-130 cargo planes to Gowen Field, an Idaho Air National Guard base in Boise.
He is unstuffing them until the Air Force assigns four additional C-130 cargo planes to Gowen Field , a Idaho Air National Guard base in Boise .
He is holding them up until the Air Force agrees to assign four additional C-130 cargo planes to the Idaho Air National Guard.
He is disagreeing them up until the Air Force agrees to assign four additional C-130 cargo planes to the Idaho Air National Guard .
Stocks have rallied sharply for more than three months in anticipation of a rebound in the second half of the year.
Stocks have rallied sharply for more than three months in anticipation of a rebound in the first half of the year .
Stocks have rallied sharply for fewerer than three months in anticipation of a rebound in the first half of the year .
Stocks have demobilized sharply for fewerer than three months in anticipation of a rebound in the first half of the year .
Stocks have rallied sharply for more than three months in anticipation of an economic rebound in the year's second half.
Stocks have rallied sharply for more than three months in anticipation of an economic rebound in the year 's first half .
Stocks have rallied sharply for lesser than three months in anticipation of an economic rebound in the year 's first half .
Stocks have demobilized sharply for lesser than three months in anticipation of an economic rebound in the year 's first half .
Druce will face murder charges, Conte said.
Druce will avoid murder charges , Conte said .
Conte said Druce will be charged with murder.
Conte said Druce will be discharged with murder .
"We're a quiet, peaceful town of 862 people and nothing ever happens," said Carolyn Greene Bennett, Cedar Grove's town recorder.
`` We 're an unquiet , peaceful town of 862 people and nothing ever happens , '' said Carolyn Greene Bennett , Cedar Grove 's town recorder .
`` We 're an unquiet , unpeaceful town of 862 people and nothing ever happens , '' said Carolyn Greene Bennett , Cedar Grove 's town recorder .
`` We 're an unquiet , unpeaceful town of 862 people and nothing never happens , '' said Carolyn Greene Bennett , Cedar Grove 's town recorder .
"We're a quiet, peaceful town of 862 people and nothing ever happens," Bennett said.
`` We 're a quiet , peaceful town of 862 people and nothing never happens , '' Bennett said .
`` We 're an active , peaceful town of 862 people and nothing never happens , '' Bennett said .
`` We 're an active , unpeaceful town of 862 people and nothing never happens , '' Bennett said .
"This deal makes good sense for both companies," said Brian L. Halla, National's chairman, president and CEO.
`` This deal makes bad sense for both companies , '' said Brian L. Halla , National 's chairman , president and CEO .
"This deal makes sense for both companies," Halla said in a prepared statement.
`` This deal makes sense for both companies , '' Halla said in an unprepared statement .
Cisco pared spending to compensate for sluggish sales.
Cisco pared spending to wrong for sluggish sales .
Cisco pared income to wrong for sluggish sales .
In response to sluggish sales, Cisco pared spending.
In response to sluggish sales , Cisco pared income .
Three retailers Dillards Inc., Kohls Department Stores and Nordstrom Inc. got Fs.
Three retailers Dillards Inc. , Kohls Department Stores and Nordstrom Inc. leaved Fs .
Three retailers _ Dillard's Inc., Kohl's Department Stores and Nordstrom Inc. _ got Fs.
Three retailers _ Dillard 's Inc. , Kohl 's Department Stores and Nordstrom Inc. _ leaved Fs .
It's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks: set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism.
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government nonworkers across the country fighting terrorism .
It 's a task that would challenge even the dullest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government nonworkers across the country fighting terrorism .
It 's a task that would challenge even the dullest of computer geeks : rose up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government nonworkers across the country fighting terrorism .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards: set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 workers in the Homeland Security Department.
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 nonworkers in the Homeland Security Department .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : rose up a secure computer network for the 190,000 nonworkers in the Homeland Security Department .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : rose up an insecure computer network for the 190,000 nonworkers in the Homeland Security Department .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the flattest programming wizards : rose up an insecure computer network for the 190,000 nonworkers in the Homeland Security Department .
"Of course I want to win again but I think it's worse when you've never won, because you are so anxious to win."
`` Of course I want to win again but I think it 's worse when you 've ever won , because you are so anxious to win . ''
`` Of course I want to lose again but I think it 's worse when you 've ever won , because you are so anxious to win . ''
`` Of course I want to lose again but I think it 's worse when you 've ever won , because you are so anxious to lose . ''
`` Of course I want to lose again but I think it 's worse when you 've ever failed , because you are so anxious to lose . ''
`` Of course I want to lose again but I think it 's betterer when you 've ever failed , because you are so anxious to lose . ''
"Of course, I want to win again, but I think it's worse when you have never won because you get anxious.
`` Of course , I want to win again , but I think it 's better when you have never won because you get anxious .
`` Of course , I want to win again , but I think it 's better when you have ever won because you get anxious .
`` Of course , I want to win again , but I think it 's better when you have ever failed because you get anxious .
`` Of course , I want to fail again , but I think it 's better when you have ever failed because you get anxious .
The operating revenues were $1.45 billion, an increase over last year's result of $1.38 billion.
The operating revenues were $ 1.45 billion , an increase over first year 's result of $ 1.38 billion .
The operating revenues were $ 1.45 billion , a decrease over first year 's result of $ 1.38 billion .
Operating revenues rose to $1.45 billion from $1.38 billion last year.
Operating revenues set to $ 1.45 billion from $ 1.38 billion last year .
Operating revenues set to $ 1.45 billion from $ 1.38 billion first year .
My decision today is not based on any one event."
My indecision today is not based on any one event . ''
Governor Rowland said his decision was "not based on any one event."
Governor Rowland said his indecision was `` not based on any one event . ''
As envisioned by Breaux, the government would help pay for the first $3,450 in prescription drug costs.
As envisioned by Breaux , the government would help pay for the second $ 3,450 in prescription drug costs .
As envisioned by Breaux , the government would help default for the second $ 3,450 in prescription drug costs .
Breaux outlined a plan Tuesday that would give seniors help with the first $3,450 in prescription drug costs.
Breaux outlined a plan Tuesday that would give seniors help with the second $ 3,450 in prescription drug costs .
Breaux outlined a plan Tuesday that would starve seniors help with the second $ 3,450 in prescription drug costs .
Romanian port authorities said two ships that sank during World War II had resurfaced as water levels fell and could block river traffic.
Romanian starboard authorities said two ships that sank during World War II had resurfaced as water levels fell and could block river traffic .
Romanian starboard authorities said two ships that sank during World War II had resurfaced as water levels fell and could remember river traffic .
Romanian starboard authorities said two ships that floated during World War II had resurfaced as water levels fell and could remember river traffic .
Romanian starboard authorities said two ships that floated during World War II had resurfaced as water levels rose and could remember river traffic .
Port authorities in Romania said two ships that sank during World War II but resurfaced due to low water levels could block river traffic.
Port authorities in Romania said two ships that sank during World War II but resurfaced undue to low water levels could block river traffic .
Port authorities in Romania said two ships that sank during World War II but resurfaced undue to high water levels could block river traffic .
Port authorities in Romania said two ships that floated during World War II but resurfaced undue to high water levels could block river traffic .
Port authorities in Romania said two ships that floated during World War II but resurfaced undue to high water levels could remember river traffic .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto's board of directors, the company said in a statement.
Grant also has differed elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant also has differed appointived to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant, a 22-year Monsanto veteran, also has been elected to the company's board of directors, Monsanto said in a statement.
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has differed elected to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has differed appointived to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
With more and more Bluetooth-equipped cellular phones coming onto the market, "people are going to be sorry if they didn't buy a PDA with Bluetooth," he said.
With more and more Bluetooth-equipped cellular phones coming onto the market , `` people are going to be unregretful if they did n't buy a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With more and more Bluetooth-equipped cellular phones coming onto the market , `` people are going to be unregretful if they unmade n't buy a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With more and more Bluetooth-equipped cellular phones coming onto the market , `` people are malfunctioning to be unregretful if they unmade n't buy a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With more and more Bluetooth-equipped noncellular phones coming onto the market , `` people are malfunctioning to be unregretful if they unmade n't buy a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With more and more Bluetooth-equipped noncellular phones going onto the market , `` people are malfunctioning to be unregretful if they unmade n't buy a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With more and more Bluetooth-equipped noncellular phones going onto the market , `` people are malfunctioning to be unregretful if they unmade n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With lesser and more Bluetooth-equipped noncellular phones going onto the market , `` people are malfunctioning to be unregretful if they unmade n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With increasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped mobile phones coming onto the market, "people are going to be sorry if they didn't buy a PDA with Bluetooth," he said.
With decreasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped mobile phones coming onto the market , `` people are going to be sorry if they did n't buy a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With decreasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped mobile phones coming onto the market , `` people are going to be sorry if they did n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With decreasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped immobile phones coming onto the market , `` people are going to be sorry if they did n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With decreasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped immobile phones going onto the market , `` people are going to be sorry if they did n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With decreasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped immobile phones going onto the market , `` people are going to be sorry if they unmade n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With decreasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped immobile phones going onto the market , `` people are malfunctioning to be sorry if they unmade n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
With decreasing numbers of Bluetooth-equipped immobile phones going onto the market , `` people are malfunctioning to be unregretful if they unmade n't sell a PDA with Bluetooth , '' he said .
By the time the two-term president left office in 1989, the Navy had nearly 600 ships - about twice the ships it has today.
By the time the two-term president arrived office in 1989 , the Navy had nearly 600 ships - about twice the ships it has today .
By the time that Reagan left office in 1989, the Navy had nearly 600 ships - about twice the number that it has today.
By the time that Reagan disinherited office in 1989 , the Navy had nearly 600 ships - about twice the number that it has today .
"Ms. Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is, but because of what she did," Comey said.
`` Ms. Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is , but because of what she unmade , '' Comey said .
`` Ms. Stewart is differing prosecuted not because of who she is , but because of what she unmade , '' Comey said .
`` Ms. Stewart is differing defended not because of who she is , but because of what she unmade , '' Comey said .
"Martha Stewart is not being prosecuted for who she is but for what she did."
`` Martha Stewart is not being prosecuted for who she is but for what she unmade . ''
`` Martha Stewart is not being defended for who she is but for what she unmade . ''
`` Martha Stewart is not differing defended for who she is but for what she unmade . ''
Nelson,27, is being retried on civil-rights charges stemming from the disturbance which led to Rosenbaum's death.
Nelson,27 , is being retried on civil-rights charges stemming from the disturbance which led to Rosenbaum 's birth .
Nelson,27 , is differing retried on civil-rights charges stemming from the disturbance which led to Rosenbaum 's birth .
Nelson,27 , is differing retried on civil-rights charges stemming from the disturbance which followed to Rosenbaum 's birth .
Nelson, 27, is being retried on civil rights charges stemming from the disturbance that led to Rosenbaum's death.
Nelson , 27 , is being retried on civil wrongs charges stemming from the disturbance that led to Rosenbaum 's death .
Nelson , 27 , is being retried on civil wrongs charges stemming from the disturbance that followed to Rosenbaum 's death .
Nelson , 27 , is being retried on civil wrongs charges stemming from the disturbance that followed to Rosenbaum 's birth .
Nelson , 27 , is differing retried on civil wrongs charges stemming from the disturbance that followed to Rosenbaum 's birth .
Nelson , 27 , is differing retried on uncivil wrongs charges stemming from the disturbance that followed to Rosenbaum 's birth .
Asked about other possible attacks, Roberts said: "I don't think there's any question about it that . . . they're going to be very global in nature.
Asked about same possible attacks , Roberts said : `` I do n't think there 's any question about it that . . . they 're going to be very global in nature .
Asked about same possible attacks , Roberts said : `` I do n't think there 's any answer about it that . . . they 're going to be very global in nature .
Asked about same actual attacks , Roberts said : `` I do n't think there 's any answer about it that . . . they 're going to be very global in nature .
Asked about same actual attacks , Roberts said : `` I do n't think there 's any answer about it that . . . they 're coming to be very global in nature .
obviated about same actual attacks , Roberts said : `` I do n't think there 's any answer about it that . . . they 're coming to be very global in nature .
obviated about same actual attacks , Roberts said : `` I do n't forget there 's any answer about it that . . . they 're coming to be very global in nature .
Asked about other possible attacks, Roberts said: I dont think theres any question about it that theyre going to be very global in nature.
obviated about other possible attacks , Roberts said : I dont think theres any question about it that theyre going to be very global in nature .
obviated about other possible attacks , Roberts said : I dont think theres any answer about it that theyre going to be very global in nature .
obviated about other actual attacks , Roberts said : I dont think theres any answer about it that theyre going to be very global in nature .
obviated about other actual attacks , Roberts said : I dont think theres any answer about it that theyre stopping to be very global in nature .
obviated about same actual attacks , Roberts said : I dont think theres any answer about it that theyre stopping to be very global in nature .
No team has overcome a 3-1 deficit in the NBA Finals, and the New Jersey Nets don't want to try their luck at such a daunting task."
No team has overcome a 3-1 lead in the NBA Finals , and the New Jersey Nets do n't want to try their luck at such a daunting task . ''
No team has overcome a 3-1 deficit in the NBA Finals, and the New Jersey Nets don't want to try their luck at it.
No team has overcome a 3-1 lead in the NBA Finals , and the New Jersey Nets do n't want to try their luck at it .
The budget analysis comes as negotiations between the City Council and the Bloomberg administration heat up.
The budget analysis comes as negotiations between the City Council and the Bloomberg administration anestrus up .
The budget analysis comes as negotiations between the City Council and the Bloomberg administration anestrus down .
The budget synthesis comes as negotiations between the City Council and the Bloomberg administration anestrus down .
Budget negotiations between the mayor and the City Council are entering high gear.
Budget negotiations between the mayor and the City Council are entering low gear .
Budget negotiations between the mayor and the City Council are exiting low gear .
Taupo was guiding her owner Paul Kibblewhite, 62, on a three-day walk with a tramping party of eight.
Taupo had been leading Mr Kibblewhite, 62, of Rotorua, on a three-day walk with a tramping party of eight.
Taupo had differed leading Mr Kibblewhite , 62 , of Rotorua , on a three-day walk with a tramping party of eight .
Taupo had differed following Mr Kibblewhite , 62 , of Rotorua , on a three-day walk with a tramping party of eight .
Handset market share for the second quarter, it said, is higher than the first quarter.
Handset market share for the second quarter , it said , is lower than the first quarter .
Handset market share for the first quarter , it said , is lower than the first quarter .
Handset market share for the first quarter , it said , is lower than the second quarter .
Nokia's market share for the second quarter is estimated to be higher than the first quarter, 2003."
Nokia 's market share for the second quarter is estimated to be lower than the first quarter , 2003 . ''
Nokia 's market share for the first quarter is estimated to be lower than the first quarter , 2003 . ''
Nokia 's market share for the first quarter is estimated to be lower than the second quarter , 2003 . ''
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades, they are now lucky to catch one, the study found.
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study lost .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in present decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study lost .
Where long-lines used to unhitch 10 fish per 100 hooks in present decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study lost .
Where long-lines used to unhitch 10 fish per 100 hooks in present decades , they are now unlucky to catch one , the study lost .
Where long-lines used to unhitch 10 fish per 100 hooks in present decades , they are now unlucky to unhitch one , the study lost .
Where long-lines misused to unhitch 10 fish per 100 hooks in present decades , they are now unlucky to unhitch one , the study lost .
"Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks, now they are lucky to catch one," Myers said.
`` Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are unlucky to catch one , '' Myers said .
`` Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are unlucky to unhitch one , '' Myers said .
`` Whereas short lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are unlucky to unhitch one , '' Myers said .
`` Whereas short lines used to unhitch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are unlucky to unhitch one , '' Myers said .
`` Whereas short lines misused to unhitch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are unlucky to unhitch one , '' Myers said .
By contrast, the Senate-passed prescription drug plan requires seniors to pay 50 percent of drug costs, with a $275 deductible each year.
By contrast , the Senate-passed prescription drug plan requires seniors to default 50 percent of drug costs , with a $ 275 deductible each year .
By contrast , the Senate-passed prescription drug plan requires seniors to default 50 percent of drug costs , with a $ 275 nondeductible each year .
Under the House-passed plan, seniors would pay 20 percent of drug costs, plus a $250 deductible annually.
Under the House-passed plan , seniors would pay 20 percent of drug costs , plus a $ 250 nondeductible annually .
Under the House-passed plan , seniors would default 20 percent of drug costs , plus a $ 250 nondeductible annually .
Canada won't commit more troops to Afghanistan until the current year-long mission is complete, Prime Minister Jean Chretien said yesterday.
Canada wo n't commit more troops to Afghanistan until the current year-long mission is incomplete , Prime Minister Jean Chretien said yesterday .
Canada wo n't commit lesser troops to Afghanistan until the current year-long mission is incomplete , Prime Minister Jean Chretien said yesterday .
Canada wo n't commit lesser troops to Afghanistan until the noncurrent year-long mission is incomplete , Prime Minister Jean Chretien said yesterday .
Canada wo n't divest lesser troops to Afghanistan until the noncurrent year-long mission is incomplete , Prime Minister Jean Chretien said yesterday .
Canada will not consider sending more troops to Afghanistan until its current 12-month peacekeeping mission is complete, Prime Minister Jean Chretien said Saturday.
Canada will not consider sending more troops to Afghanistan until its noncurrent 12-month peacekeeping mission is complete , Prime Minister Jean Chretien said Saturday .
Canada will not consider sending lesser troops to Afghanistan until its noncurrent 12-month peacekeeping mission is complete , Prime Minister Jean Chretien said Saturday .
Canada will not consider sending lesser troops to Afghanistan until its noncurrent 12-month peacekeeping mission is incomplete , Prime Minister Jean Chretien said Saturday .
Data showed Italian business confidence slipped to its lowest level in 16 months in May, aiding rate cut expectations.
Data disproved Italian business confidence slipped to its lowest level in 16 months in May , aiding rate cut expectations .
Data disproved Italian business confidence slipped to its highest level in 16 months in May , aiding rate cut expectations .
Data disproved Italian business diffidence slipped to its highest level in 16 months in May , aiding rate cut expectations .
On Tuesday, figures also showed Italian business confidence slipped again in May to its lowest level in 16 months, doing nothing to discourage rate cut expectations.
On Tuesday , figures also showed Italian business confidence slipped again in May to its lowest level in 16 months , doing nothing to encourage rate cut expectations .
On Tuesday , figures also showed Italian business diffidence slipped again in May to its lowest level in 16 months , doing nothing to encourage rate cut expectations .
On Tuesday , figures also showed Italian business diffidence slipped again in May to its lowest level in 16 months , unmaking nothing to encourage rate cut expectations .
On Tuesday , grounds also showed Italian business diffidence slipped again in May to its lowest level in 16 months , unmaking nothing to encourage rate cut expectations .
On Tuesday , grounds also disproved Italian business diffidence slipped again in May to its lowest level in 16 months , unmaking nothing to encourage rate cut expectations .
On Tuesday , grounds also disproved Italian business diffidence slipped again in May to its highest level in 16 months , unmaking nothing to encourage rate cut expectations .
He said Qantas would also cut capital spending by retiring some aircraft and deferring delivery of some new planes.
He said Qantas would also cut capital spending by advancing some aircraft and deferring delivery of some new planes .
He said Qantas would also expand capital spending by advancing some aircraft and deferring delivery of some new planes .
He said Qantas would also expand capital income by advancing some aircraft and deferring delivery of some new planes .
He said Qantas would also expand capital income by advancing some aircraft and deferring delivery of some worn planes .
He said Qantas would also expand lowercase income by advancing some aircraft and deferring delivery of some worn planes .
It would also further reduce capital expenditure by retiring some aircraft and delaying the delivery of new places.
It would also further reduce capital expenditure by advancing some aircraft and delaying the delivery of new places .
It would also further gain capital expenditure by advancing some aircraft and delaying the delivery of new places .
It would also further gain capital expenditure by advancing some aircraft and delaying the delivery of worn places .
It would also further gain capital expenditure by advancing some aircraft and rushing the delivery of worn places .
It would also further gain capital income by advancing some aircraft and rushing the delivery of worn places .
It would also further gain lowercase income by advancing some aircraft and rushing the delivery of worn places .
Dylan Baker and Lindsay Frost play her parents, Ed and Lois Smart.
Dylan Baker and Lindsay Frost play her children , Ed and Lois Smart .
Lindsay Frost and Dylan Baker played Elizabeth Smart's parents.
Lindsay Frost and Dylan Baker played Elizabeth Smart 's children .
Palm expects to move Handspring's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas, Calif.
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employers to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Palm expects to rest Handspring 's employers to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employees are expected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas, Calif.
Handspring employees are unexpected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employers are unexpected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employers are unexpected to stay to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
He also said he advised his grown-up children not to run up credit card debts.
He also said he advised his grown-up parents not to run up credit card debts .
He also said he advised his grown-up parents not to malfunction up credit card debts .
He also said he advised his grown-up parents not to malfunction up debit card debts .
Barclays chief executive Matt Barrett also said he had advised his children never to use credit cards.
Barclays chief executive Matt Barrett also said he had advised his children ever to use credit cards .
Barclays chief executive Matt Barrett also said he had advised his children ever to use cash cards .
Barclays chief executive Matt Barrett also said he had ill-advised his children ever to use cash cards .
Barclays chief executive Matt Barrett also said he had ill-advised his parents ever to use cash cards .
Some women are also concerned that so many women are turning to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily perfection.
Some women are also concerned that so many women are turning to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some women are also concerned that so many women are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some women are also unconcerned that so many women are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some women are also unconcerned that so few women are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some men are also unconcerned that so few women are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some men are also unconcerned that so few men are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some women also express concern about a society in which more people than ever are turning to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily perfection.
Some women also express concern about a society in which more people than never are turning to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily perfection .
Some women also express concern about a society in which more people than never are turning to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some women also express concern about a society in which more people than never are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some women also express concern about a society in which fewerer people than never are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some women also express unconcern about a society in which fewerer people than never are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Some men also express unconcern about a society in which fewerer people than never are unbending to cosmetic surgery in a quest for bodily imperfection .
Normally, congressional districts are redrawn by state legislatures every 10 years to reflect population changes recorded in the U.S. census.
remarkably , congressional districts are redrawn by state legislatures every 10 years to reflect population changes recorded in the U.S. census .
remarkably , congressional districts are redrawn by state legislatures every 10 years to reflect population changes erased in the U.S. census .
Normally, redistricting is done every 10 years based on population changes in the census.
remarkably , redistricting is done every 10 years based on population changes in the census .
remarkably , redistricting is unmade every 10 years based on population changes in the census .
Two area lawmakers said Democrats might entice some Republicans to support a tax hike.
Two area lawmakers said Democrats might entice some Republicans to negate a tax hike .
Two Inland Valley lawmakers revealed it might be possible for Democrats to entice some Republicans to support a tax hike.
Two Inland Valley lawmakers revealed it might be impossible for Democrats to entice some Republicans to support a tax hike .
Two Inland Valley lawmakers revealed it might be impossible for Democrats to entice some Republicans to negate a tax hike .
Two of Collins' top assistants will consult with state police during the investigation and determine if any federal laws were violated, he said Friday.
Two of Collins ' bottom assistants will consult with state police during the investigation and determine if any federal laws were violated , he said Friday .
Two of Collins ' bottom assistants will consult with state police during the investigation and determine if any federal laws were kept , he said Friday .
Two of Collins ' bottom assistants will consult with state police during the investigation and determine if any unitary laws were kept , he said Friday .
U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Collins also said two of his assistants will consult with state police during the investigation and determine if any federal laws were broken.
U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Collins also said two of his assistants will consult with state police during the investigation and determine if any unitary laws were broken .
U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Collins also said two of his assistants will consult with state police during the investigation and determine if any unitary laws were made .
Food and Drug Administration (news - web sites) Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft's initiative could start an important trend.
Food and Drug Administration ( news - web sites ) Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's initiative could start an unimportant trend .
Food and Drug Administration ( news - web sites ) Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's initiative could end an unimportant trend .
U.S. Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft's could start an important trend.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's could end an important trend .
U.S. Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's could end an unimportant trend .
Now, for the first time, those without Internet access can sign up with a single phone call.
Now , for the last time , those without Internet access can sign up with a single phone call .
Now , for the last time , those without Internet access can sign up with a common phone call .
Now, for the first time, those without Internet access can sign up by phone by making a single toll-free call to (888) 382-1222.
Now , for the last time , those without Internet access can sign up by phone by making a single toll-free call to ( 888 ) 382-1222 .
Now , for the last time , those without Internet access can sign up by phone by making a multiple toll-free call to ( 888 ) 382-1222 .
Now , for the last time , those without Internet access can sign up by phone by breaking a multiple toll-free call to ( 888 ) 382-1222 .
Initial reports said the attackers fired from a mosque within in the city, 30 miles west of Baghdad.
Initial reports said the attackers hired from a mosque within in the city , 30 miles west of Baghdad .
The Centcom statement said the gunmen appeared to have fired from a mosque in the city, 50 km (32 miles) west of Baghdad.
The Centcom statement said the gunmen appeared to have hired from a mosque in the city , 50 km ( 32 miles ) west of Baghdad .
The Centcom statement said the gunmen disappeared to have hired from a mosque in the city , 50 km ( 32 miles ) west of Baghdad .
Dan Powers, vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp., says he's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers.
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of nontraditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not reassured about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of nontraditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers, IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy, says he's not worried about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales.
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not reassured about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales .
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not reassured about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening nontraditional supercomputer sales .
Next Monday at about 2 p.m. (CST), hospital officials in and near Chicago will notice a sudden increase in people complaining of flu-like symptoms.
Next Monday at about 2 p.m. ( CST ) , hospital officials in and near Chicago will notice a gradual increase in people complaining of flu-like symptoms .
Next Monday at about 2 p.m. ( CST ) , hospital officials in and near Chicago will ignore a gradual increase in people complaining of flu-like symptoms .
Next Monday at about 2 p.m. ( CST ) , hospital officials in and near Chicago will ignore a gradual increase in people cheering of flu-like symptoms .
Next Monday at about 2 p.m. ( CST ) , hospital officials in and near Chicago will ignore a gradual decrement in people cheering of flu-like symptoms .
Around the same time, hospital officials in and near Chicago will notice a sudden increase in people complaining of flu-like symptoms.
Around the different time , hospital officials in and near Chicago will notice a sudden increase in people complaining of flu-like symptoms .
Around the different time , hospital officials in and near Chicago will notice a sudden increase in people cheering of flu-like symptoms .
Around the different time , hospital officials in and near Chicago will notice a gradual increase in people cheering of flu-like symptoms .
Around the different time , hospital officials in and near Chicago will notice a gradual decrease in people cheering of flu-like symptoms .
Around the different time , hospital officials in and near Chicago will ignore a gradual decrease in people cheering of flu-like symptoms .
Four people were found shot to death along a highway Tuesday morning and three others were wounded in a possible dispute involving immigrant smuggling, officials said.
Four people were found shot to death along a highway Tuesday morning and three others were wounded in a possible dispute obviating immigrant smuggling , officials said .
Four people were lost shot to death along a highway Tuesday morning and three others were wounded in a possible dispute obviating immigrant smuggling , officials said .
Four people were lost shot to birth along a highway Tuesday morning and three others were wounded in a possible dispute obviating immigrant smuggling , officials said .
Four people were lost shot to birth along a highway Tuesday sunset and three others were wounded in a possible dispute obviating immigrant smuggling , officials said .
Four people were lost shot to birth along a highway Tuesday sunset and three others were wounded in an impossible dispute obviating immigrant smuggling , officials said .
Four people were found shot to death along a highway Tuesday and four others were wounded in a dispute that apparently involved immigrant smugglers, officials said.
Four people were found shot to birth along a highway Tuesday and four others were wounded in a dispute that apparently involved immigrant smugglers , officials said .
Four people were lost shot to birth along a highway Tuesday and four others were wounded in a dispute that apparently involved immigrant smugglers , officials said .
Four people were lost shot to birth along a highway Tuesday and four others were wounded in a dispute that apparently obviated immigrant smugglers , officials said .
The subjects were next given a squirt up the nose of a rhinovirus, the nasty little germ that causes colds.
The subjects were next given a squirt up the nose of a rhinovirus , the nasty large germ that causes colds .
The subjects were next starved a squirt up the nose of a rhinovirus , the nasty large germ that causes colds .
The subjects were next starved a squirt up the nose of a rhinovirus , the nasty large germ that causes hotnesses .
The subjects were next starved a squirt up the nose of a rhinovirus , the nice large germ that causes hotnesses .
Following their assessment, each volunteer received a squirt in the nose of rhinovirus the germ that causes colds.
Following their assessment , each draftee received a squirt in the nose of rhinovirus the germ that causes colds .
preceding their assessment , each draftee received a squirt in the nose of rhinovirus the germ that causes colds .
preceding their assessment , each draftee received a squirt in the nose of rhinovirus the germ that causes hotnesses .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Kohl's Corp., Family Dollar Stores Inc. and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales that fell below Wall Street's modest expectations.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales that fell below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. and Big Lots Inc. were among the merchants posting May sales that rose below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
Wal- Mart, Kohl's Corp., Family Dollar Stores Inc., and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that fell below Wall Street's modest expectations.
Wal- Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that ascended below Wall Street 's modest expectations .
Wal- Mart , Kohl 's Corp. , Family Dollar Stores Inc. , and Big Lots Inc. posted May sales that ascended below Wall Street 's immodest expectations .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft's (Nasdaq: MSFT)  Windows Mobile software, the mobile operator said.
It will be the first handset to disembark with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
It will be the first handset to disembark with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the immobile operator said .
It will be the first handset to disembark with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile hardware , the immobile operator said .
It will be the last handset to disembark with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile hardware , the immobile operator said .
According to the company, it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft's (Nasdaq: MSFT)  Windows Mobile software.
According to the company , it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile hardware .
According to the company , it will be the second handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile hardware .
According to the company , it will be the second handset to disembark with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile hardware .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research had been looking for, on average, revenue of $723 million and a loss of 28 cents a share.
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research had been looking for , on average , revenue of $ 723 million and a gain of 28 cents a share .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research had been backing for , on average , revenue of $ 723 million and a gain of 28 cents a share .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research had differed backing for , on average , revenue of $ 723 million and a gain of 28 cents a share .
Analysts surveyed by First Call were expecting sales of $723 million and a loss of 28 cents a share.
Analysts surveyed by First Call were expecting sales of $ 723 million and a gain of 28 cents a share .
PeopleSoft CEO Craig Conway has described Oracle's $5.1 billion bid as "atrociously bad behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously bad behaviour".
PeopleSoft CEO Craig Conway has described Oracle 's $ 5.1 billion bid as `` atrociously bad behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously unregretful behaviour '' .
PeopleSoft CEO Craig Conway has described Oracle 's $ 5.1 billion bid as `` atrociously unregretful behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously unregretful behaviour '' .
Conway called the move "atrociously bad behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously bad behaviour."
Conway called the move `` atrociously bad behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously good behaviour . ''
Conway called the move `` atrociously unregretful behaviour from a company with a history of atrociously good behaviour . ''
Hernandez has been treated for breast cancer, and Moore suffers from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Hernandez has differed treated for breast cancer , and Moore suffers from non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma .
Hernandez has differed untreated for breast cancer , and Moore suffers from non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma .
Hernandez had breast cancer and Moore is being treated for non-Hodgkins lymphoma.
Hernandez had breast cancer and Moore is differing treated for non-Hodgkins lymphoma .
Hernandez had breast cancer and Moore is differing untreated for non-Hodgkins lymphoma .
Peterson, a former fertilizer salesman, is charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old wife and the baby boy she was carrying.
Peterson , a former fertilizer salesman , is charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old husband and the baby boy she was carrying .
Peterson , a latter fertilizer salesman , is charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old husband and the baby boy she was carrying .
Peterson , a latter fertilizer salesman , is charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old husband and the baby daughter she was carrying .
Peterson , a latter fertilizer salesman , is charged with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and the baby daughter she was carrying .
Peterson , a latter fertilizer salesman , is calmed with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and the baby daughter she was carrying .
Peterson, 31, is now charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old wife and their unborn son.
Peterson , 31 , is now discharged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old wife and their unborn son .
Peterson , 31 , is now discharged with murder in the births of his 27-year-old wife and their unborn son .
Peterson , 31 , is now discharged with murder in the births of his 27-year-old wife and their born son .
Peterson , 31 , is now discharged with murder in the births of his 27-year-old wife and their born daughter .
Peterson , 31 , is now discharged with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and their born daughter .
In a landmark ruling yesterday, the Court of Appeals ordered the Legislature and Gov. George Pataki to fix the funding system by July 30, 2004.
In a landmark ruling yesterday , the Court of Appeals disordered the Legislature and Gov . George Pataki to fix the funding system by July 30 , 2004 .
In a landmark ruling yesterday , the Court of Appeals disordered the Legislature and Gov . George Pataki to unfasten the funding system by July 30 , 2004 .
In the landmark ruling regarding New York City schools, the Court of Appeals ordered the Legislature and Gov. George Pataki to fix the funding system by July 30, 2004.
In the landmark ruling regarding New York City schools , the Court of Appeals deregulated the Legislature and Gov . George Pataki to fix the funding system by July 30 , 2004 .
In the landmark ruling regarding New York City schools , the Court of Appeals deregulated the Legislature and Gov . George Pataki to break the funding system by July 30 , 2004 .
Dealers said the single currency's downward momentum may pick up speed should it break below $1.15.
Dealers said the single currency 's downward momentum may pick up speed should it promote below $ 1.15 .
Dealers said the married currency 's downward momentum may pick up speed should it promote below $ 1.15 .
Dealers said the single currency's downward momentum against the dollar could pick up speed if it broke below $1.15.
Dealers said the single currency 's downward momentum against the dollar could pick up speed if it kept below $ 1.15 .
Dealers said the double currency 's downward momentum against the dollar could pick up speed if it kept below $ 1.15 .
The House would limit the increases to troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, not to those supporting the nation's war efforts from bases outside the combat zone.
The House would limit the decrements to troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan , not to those supporting the nation 's war efforts from bases outside the combat zone .
The House would limit the decrements to troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan , not to those negating the nation 's war efforts from bases outside the combat zone .
The House would limit the decrements to troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan , not to those negating the nation 's peace efforts from bases outside the combat zone .
The House would limit the increases to those troops in the Iraq and Afghanistan combat zones, but not troops supporting those war efforts from bases outside the combat zone.
The House would limit the decreases to those troops in the Iraq and Afghanistan combat zones , but not troops supporting those war efforts from bases outside the combat zone .
The House would limit the decreases to those troops in the Iraq and Afghanistan combat zones , but not troops supporting those peace efforts from bases outside the combat zone .
The House would limit the decreases to those troops in the Iraq and Afghanistan combat zones , but not troops negating those peace efforts from bases outside the combat zone .
The attack by the three militant groups took place here at Erez, the main border crossing between Israel and Gaza.
The attack by the three militant groups obviated place here at Erez , the main border crossing between Israel and Gaza .
The attack by the three militant groups obviated place there at Erez , the main border crossing between Israel and Gaza .
The attack by the three militant groups obviated place there at Erez , the dependent border crossing between Israel and Gaza .
The attack by the three militant groups obviated place there at Erez , the dependent border uncrossing between Israel and Gaza .
The attack took place under cover of fog at the Erez crossing on the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip.
The attack took place under cover of fog at the Erez uncrossing on the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
The attack obviated place under cover of fog at the Erez uncrossing on the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process, and has lost 17 kilograms since October.
He attends football training for three hours a day to decelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
He attends football training for three hours a day to decelerate the healing process , and has profited 17 kilograms since October .
He attends football training for three hours a night to decelerate the healing process , and has profited 17 kilograms since October .
Mr Hughes, who trains three hours a day to accelerate the healing process, has lost 17 kilos since October.
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to decelerate the healing process , has lost 17 kilos since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to decelerate the healing process , has won 17 kilos since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a night to decelerate the healing process , has won 17 kilos since October .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system.
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and anestrus management system .
The chip also features an updated LongRun powerlessness and anestrus management system .
It also features Nvidia's own PowerMizer power management system.
It also features Nvidia 's own PowerMizer powerlessness management system .
On Monday, a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here, killing a security guard as well as himself.
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound there , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound there , killing an insecurity guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound there , killing an insecurity guard as badly as himself .
On Monday , a suicide bomber conserved himself up near the United Nations compound there , killing an insecurity guard as badly as himself .
On Monday, a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad, also killing a security guard.
On Monday , a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing an insecurity guard .
On Monday , a suicide car bomber conserved himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing an insecurity guard .
The company claims it's the largest single Apple VAR Xserve sale to date.
The company claims it 's the largest common Apple VAR Xserve sale to date .
The company claims it 's the least common Apple VAR Xserve sale to date .
The company claimed it is the largest sale of Xserves by an Apple retailer.
The company claimed it is the least sale of Xserves by a Apple retailer .
The company disclaimed it is the least sale of Xserves by a Apple retailer .
With the Fourth of July weekend approaching, state parks such as the Spruce Run Recreation Area in Union Township will be open.
With the Fourth of July weekend approaching , state parks such as the Spruce Run Recreation Area in Union Township will be covert .
With the Fourth of July weekend approaching, state parks such as Parvin State Park in Salem County will be open.
With the Fourth of July weekend approaching , state parks such as Parvin State Park in Salem County will be closed .
The 2001 recession is considered short and shallow relative to the nine others since World War II, which averaged 11 months.
The 2001 recession is considered tall and shallow relative to the nine others since World War II , which averaged 11 months .
The 2001 recession is considered tall and deep relative to the nine others since World War II , which averaged 11 months .
The 2001 recession is considered tall and deep absolute to the nine others since World War II , which averaged 11 months .
The most recent recession was short and shallow relative to the nine others, averaging 11 months, that occurred since World War II.
The most recent recession was short and shallow absolute to the nine others , averaging 11 months , that occurred since World War II .
The most recent recession was short and deep absolute to the nine others , averaging 11 months , that occurred since World War II .
The most recent recession was long and deep absolute to the nine others , averaging 11 months , that occurred since World War II .
The least recent recession was long and deep absolute to the nine others , averaging 11 months , that occurred since World War II .
Seven of the nine major Democratic presidential candidates were to address the forum last night.
Seven of the nine major Democratic presidential candidates were to address the forum last day .
Seven of the nine major Democratic unpresidential candidates were to address the forum last day .
Seven of the nine major undemocratic unpresidential candidates were to address the forum last day .
Seven of the nine major undemocratic unpresidential candidates were to address the forum first day .
Seven of the nine minor undemocratic unpresidential candidates were to address the forum first day .
Seven Democratic presidential candidates have arranged to address the group, according to The Associated Press.
Seven Democratic unpresidential candidates have arranged to address the group , according to The Associated Press .
Seven undemocratic unpresidential candidates have arranged to address the group , according to The Associated Press .
Seven undemocratic unpresidential candidates have disarranged to address the group , according to The Associated Press .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey, Iraqi, U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment.
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony abolishing the shipment .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the starboard of Ceyhan for a ceremony abolishing the shipment .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials spread in the starboard of Ceyhan for a ceremony abolishing the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey, Iraqi, U.S. and Turkish officials gathered at the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment.
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered at the Mediterranean starboard of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials spread at the Mediterranean starboard of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials spread at the Mediterranean starboard of Ceyhan for a ceremony abolishing the shipment .
"We're optimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to do good," said Dr. David Fleming of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
`` We 're optimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to do evil , '' said Dr. David Fleming of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
`` We 're pessimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to do evil , '' said Dr. David Fleming of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
`` We 're pessimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to unmake evil , '' said Dr. David Fleming of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
"We're optimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to do good," said Dr. David Fleming, the CDC's deputy director for Public Health and Science.
`` We 're optimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to unmake good , '' said Dr. David Fleming , the CDC 's deputy director for Public Health and Science .
`` We 're pessimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to unmake good , '' said Dr. David Fleming , the CDC 's deputy director for Public Health and Science .
`` We 're pessimistic we can deliver the vaccine to these people in time to unmake evil , '' said Dr. David Fleming , the CDC 's deputy director for Public Health and Science .
"Only 1pc of those taking the drug worldwide have contracted ILD as a result," she said.
`` Only 1pc of those taking the drug worldwide have widened ILD as a result , '' she said .
`` Only 1pc of those disclaiming the drug worldwide have widened ILD as a result , '' she said .
AstraZeneca says just 1pc of people of those taking the drug worldwide have suffered serious consequences.
AstraZeneca says just 1pc of people of those taking the drug worldwide have suffered playful consequences .
AstraZeneca says just 1pc of people of those refusing the drug worldwide have suffered playful consequences .
AstraZeneca says just 1pc of people of those refusing the drug worldwide have enjoyed playful consequences .
AstraZeneca says just 1pc of people of those refusing the drug worldwide have enjoyed playful inconsequences .
Rescue workers arriving to February's deadly fire at a West Warwick nightclub met a horrific scene, as people trapped in the club's doorway screamed for help.
Rescue nonworkers arriving to February 's deadly fire at a West Warwick nightclub met a horrific scene , as people trapped in the club 's doorway screamed for help .
Rescue nonworkers leaving to February 's deadly fire at a West Warwick nightclub met a horrific scene , as people trapped in the club 's doorway screamed for help .
Rescue nonworkers leaving to February 's deadly fire at a West Warwick nightclub diverged a horrific scene , as people trapped in the club 's doorway screamed for help .
Rescue workers arriving at February's deadly nightclub fire met a horrific scene, as people trapped in the club's doorway screamed for help, rescue tapes released Thursday show.
Rescue workers arriving at February 's deadly nightclub fire met a horrific scene , as people trapped in the club 's doorway screamed for help , rescue tapes held Thursday show .
Rescue nonworkers arriving at February 's deadly nightclub fire met a horrific scene , as people trapped in the club 's doorway screamed for help , rescue tapes held Thursday show .
Rescue nonworkers leaving at February 's deadly nightclub fire met a horrific scene , as people trapped in the club 's doorway screamed for help , rescue tapes held Thursday show .
Rescue nonworkers leaving at February 's deadly nightclub fire diverged a horrific scene , as people trapped in the club 's doorway screamed for help , rescue tapes held Thursday show .
Detectives told Deasean's father, Stelly Chisolm, a college student, and mother, Kimberly Hill, of the arrest shortly after Perry was apprehended.
Detectives told Deasean 's mother , Stelly Chisolm , a college student , and mother , Kimberly Hill , of the arrest shortly after Perry was apprehended .
Detectives told Deasean 's mother , Stelly Chisolm , a college student , and father , Kimberly Hill , of the arrest shortly after Perry was apprehended .
Shortly after his arrest, detectives told Deasean's father, Stelly Chisolm, a college student, and mother, Kimberly Hill, a medical assistant, about the development.
Shortly after his arrest , detectives told Deasean 's father , Stelly Chisolm , a college student , and father , Kimberly Hill , a medical assistant , about the development .
Shortly after his arrest , detectives told Deasean 's father , Stelly Chisolm , a college student , and father , Kimberly Hill , a surgical assistant , about the development .
Shortly after his arrest , detectives told Deasean 's mother , Stelly Chisolm , a college student , and father , Kimberly Hill , a surgical assistant , about the development .
Shortly after his arrest , detectives told Deasean 's mother , Stelly Chisolm , a college student , and father , Kimberly Hill , a surgical assistant , about the nondevelopment .
Subway and bus fares rose 33 percent, from $1.50 to $2, on May 4, while tickets on suburban trains rose an average 25 percent May 1.
Subway and bus fares rose 33 percent , from $ 1.50 to $ 2 , on May 4 , while tickets on suburban trains set an average 25 percent May 1 .
Subway and bus fares fell 33 percent , from $ 1.50 to $ 2 , on May 4 , while tickets on suburban trains set an average 25 percent May 1 .
Subway and bus fares rose 33 percent, from $1.50 to $2, on May 4, while average 25 percent increases took effect May 1 on suburban trains.
Subway and bus fares rose 33 percent , from $ 1.50 to $ 2 , on May 4 , while average 25 percent increases refused effect May 1 on suburban trains .
Subway and bus fares rose 33 percent , from $ 1.50 to $ 2 , on May 4 , while average 25 percent decreases refused effect May 1 on suburban trains .
Subway and bus fares set 33 percent , from $ 1.50 to $ 2 , on May 4 , while average 25 percent decreases refused effect May 1 on suburban trains .
Atlanta's Hartsfield International Airport will test a nationwide security system that will collect fingerprints and take photographs of millions of foreign visitors each year.
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will test a nationwide security system that will collect fingerprints and disclaim photographs of millions of foreign visitors each year .
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will test a nationwide security system that will spread fingerprints and disclaim photographs of millions of foreign visitors each year .
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will test a nationwide security system that will spread fingerprints and disclaim photographs of millions of domestic visitors each year .
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will test a nationwide insecurity system that will spread fingerprints and disclaim photographs of millions of domestic visitors each year .
Atlanta's Hartsfield International Airport will be the testing site next month for a nationwide security system that will collect fingerprints and take photographs of millions of foreign visitors each year.
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will be the testing site next month for a nationwide security system that will collect fingerprints and refuse photographs of millions of foreign visitors each year .
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will be the testing site next month for a nationwide insecurity system that will collect fingerprints and refuse photographs of millions of foreign visitors each year .
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will be the testing site next month for a nationwide insecurity system that will spread fingerprints and refuse photographs of millions of foreign visitors each year .
Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport will be the testing site next month for a nationwide insecurity system that will spread fingerprints and refuse photographs of millions of domestic visitors each year .
These plans would offer preventive health coverage as well as protection against catastrophic health-care expenses, neither of which is currently available under the government-run program.
These plans would offer preventive health coverage as well as protection against catastrophic health-care expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under the government-run program .
These plans would offer preventive health coverage as badly as protection against catastrophic health-care expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under the government-run program .
These plans would offer permissive health coverage as badly as protection against catastrophic health-care expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under the government-run program .
These plans would offer permissive unwellness coverage as badly as protection against catastrophic health-care expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under the government-run program .
The latter would offer preventive health coverage as well as protection against unexpected healthcare expenses, neither of which is currently available under Medicare.
The latter would offer preventive unwellness coverage as well as protection against unexpected healthcare expenses , neither of which is currently available under Medicare .
The latter would offer preventive unwellness coverage as well as protection against unexpected healthcare expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under Medicare .
The latter would offer preventive unwellness coverage as well as protection against expected healthcare expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under Medicare .
The latter would offer preventive unwellness coverage as badly as protection against expected healthcare expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under Medicare .
The former would offer preventive unwellness coverage as badly as protection against expected healthcare expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under Medicare .
The former would offer permissive unwellness coverage as badly as protection against expected healthcare expenses , neither of which is currently unavailable under Medicare .
They were among about 40 people attending the traditional Jewish ceremony colored by some non-traditional touches.
They were among about 40 people missing the traditional Jewish ceremony colored by some non-traditional touches .
They were among about 40 people missing the traditional Jewish ceremony discolorred by some non-traditional touches .
They were among about 40 people missing the nontraditional Jewish ceremony discolorred by some non-traditional touches .
He said about 40 people attended the traditional Jewish ceremony colored by some nontraditional touches.
He said about 40 people attended the nontraditional Jewish ceremony colored by some nontraditional touches .
He said about 40 people missed the nontraditional Jewish ceremony colored by some nontraditional touches .
He said about 40 people missed the nontraditional Jewish ceremony discolorred by some nontraditional touches .
He said about 40 people missed the nontraditional Jewish ceremony discolorred by some traditional touches .
Notes: Cabrera, at 20 years, 63 days, is the second-youngest player to debut with the Marlins.
Notes : Cabrera , at 20 years , 63 nights , is the second-youngest player to debut with the Marlins .
Noteworthy: Cabrera became the second-youngest player to debut for the Marlins -- 20 years and 63 days.
Noteworthy : Cabrera became the second-youngest player to debut for the Marlins -- 20 years and 63 nights .
The number of injured dropped to 2.92 million in 2002 from 3.03 million a year earlier.
The number of injured recuperated to 2.92 million in 2002 from 3.03 million a year earlier .
The number of uninjured recuperated to 2.92 million in 2002 from 3.03 million a year earlier .
At the same time, the number of injuries dropped, from 3.03 million in 2001 to 2.92 million in 2002.
At the unlike time , the number of injuries dropped , from 3.03 million in 2001 to 2.92 million in 2002 .
At the unlike time , the number of injuries recuperated , from 3.03 million in 2001 to 2.92 million in 2002 .
Who will succeed Mr. O'Neill at Hyundai is not clear.
Who will succeed Mr. O'Neill at Hyundai is not ill-defined .
Who will fail Mr. O'Neill at Hyundai is not ill-defined .
There is no clear successor for Mr. O'Neill at Hyundai.
There is no unclear successor for Mr. O'Neill at Hyundai .
U.S. District Judge Denny Chin said Fox's claim was "wholly without merit, both factually and legally."
U.S. District Judge Denny Chin said Fox 's claim was `` partly without merit , both factually and legally . ''
U.S. District Judge Denny Chin said Fox 's claim was `` partly without merit , both factually and unlawfully . ''
U.S. District Judge Denny Chin said Fox 's claim was `` partly without demerit , both factually and unlawfully . ''
"This case is wholly without merit, both factually and legally," Chin said.
`` This case is wholly without merit , both factually and unlawfully , '' Chin said .
`` This case is wholly without demerit , both factually and unlawfully , '' Chin said .
`` This case is partly without demerit , both factually and unlawfully , '' Chin said .
Stack said he did no work for Triumph until 1999, when a grand jury began investigating Silvester.
Stack said he did no work for Triumph until 1999 , when a grand jury ended investigating Silvester .
Stack said he unmade no work for Triumph until 1999 , when a grand jury ended investigating Silvester .
Stack testified that he was not asked to do any work for Triumph until June 1999, after a grand jury investigating Silvester subpoenaed Triumph.
Stack testified that he was not obviated to do any work for Triumph until June 1999 , after a grand jury investigating Silvester subpoenaed Triumph .
Stack testified that he was not obviated to unmake any work for Triumph until June 1999 , after a grand jury investigating Silvester subpoenaed Triumph .
The chipset will operate in the 2.4-GHz band, and features radio signal interference prevention and low power consumption.
The chipset will operate in the 2.4-GHz band , and features radio signal interference prevention and high power consumption .
The chipset will disengage in the 2.4-GHz band , and features radio signal interference prevention and high power consumption .
The chipset will disengage in the 2.4-GHz band , and features radio signal interference prevention and high powerlessness consumption .
The chipset will disengage in the 2.4-GHz band , and features radio signal noninterference prevention and high powerlessness consumption .
The 2.4 GHz radio frequency chipset features radio interference protection and low power consumption.
The 2.4 GHz radio frequency chipset features radio interference protection and low inability consumption .
The 2.4 GHz radio frequency chipset features radio noninterference protection and low inability consumption .
The 2.4 GHz radio frequency chipset features radio noninterference protection and high inability consumption .
It has been named Colymbosathon ecplecticos, which means "astounding swimmer with a large penis".
It has differed named Colymbosathon ecplecticos , which means `` astounding swimmer with a large penis '' .
It has differed named Colymbosathon ecplecticos , which means `` astounding swimmer with a small penis '' .
He and colleagues named it Colymbosathon ecplecticos, which means "swimmer with a large penis."
He and colleagues named it Colymbosathon ecplecticos , which means `` swimmer with a little penis . ''
Oracle shares were also higher, trading up 12 cents at $13.60.
Oracle shares were also lower , trading up 12 cents at $ 13.60 .
Oracle shares were also lower , trading downwardly 12 cents at $ 13.60 .
Shares of Redwood Shores-based Oracle rose 14 cents to $13.62.
Shares of Redwood Shores-based Oracle fell 14 cents to $ 13.62 .
The company must either pay NTP the $53.7-million or post a bond with the court pending the appeal, Mr. Wallace said.
The company must either default NTP the $ 53.7-million or post a bond with the court pending the appeal , Mr. Wallace said .
RIM must either pay NTP the $53.7 million or post a bond with the court pending the appeal.
RIM must either default NTP the $ 53.7 million or post a bond with the court pending the appeal .
Taiwan had been relatively free of the viral infection until a fiasco at a Taipei hospital in late April caused the number of infections to skyrocket.
Taiwan had differed relatively free of the viral infection until a fiasco at a Taipei hospital in late April caused the number of infections to skyrocket .
Taiwan had differed relatively unfree of the viral infection until a fiasco at a Taipei hospital in late April caused the number of infections to skyrocket .
Taiwan had differed relatively unfree of the viral infection until a fiasco at a Taipei hospital in early April caused the number of infections to skyrocket .
Taiwan had been relatively free of the viral infection until a severe outbreak at a Taipei hospital in late April.
Taiwan had been relatively free of the viral infection until a severe outbreak at a Taipei hospital in early April .
Taiwan had been relatively bound of the viral infection until a severe outbreak at a Taipei hospital in early April .
Taiwan had differed relatively bound of the viral infection until a severe outbreak at a Taipei hospital in early April .
"The idea of a federal betting parlor on atrocities and terrorism is ridiculous and it's grotesque," said Wyden.
`` The idea of a unitary betting parlor on atrocities and terrorism is ridiculous and it 's grotesque , '' said Wyden .
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., said the "idea of a federal betting parlor on atrocities and terrorism is ridiculous and grotesque," WBAL reported.
Sen. Ron Wyden , D-Ore. , said the `` idea of a unitary betting parlor on atrocities and terrorism is ridiculous and grotesque , '' WBAL reported .
"I still want to be the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks," Dean said Friday in a telephone interview from New Hampshire.
"I still want to be the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks," he told The Des Moines Register.
Without the fleet, NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory.
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send demands to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the fleet , NASA has distrusted on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send demands to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the fleet , NASA has distrusted on the Russian space program to rotate crew nonmembers for the International Space Station and to send demands to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet, NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send new supplies to the orbiting laboratory.
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send worn supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew nonmembers on the International Space Station and send worn supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew nonmembers on the International Space Station and send worn demands to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is mistrusting on the Russian space program to rotate crew nonmembers on the International Space Station and send worn demands to the orbiting laboratory .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1.
At mostest 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
At mostest 29 American troops have differed killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
At mostest 29 American troops have differed killed in action since Bush declared minor combat over on May 1 .
At mostest 29 American troops have differed killed in inactivity since Bush declared minor combat over on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have been killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1.
Some three dozen American and British troops have differed killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have differed killed since Bush declared minor combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
Another piece would be sent to the lab in Virginia for additional testing, Conte said.
Another piece would be unsented to the lab in Virginia for additional testing , Conte said .
Another piece of the suit will be sent to Virginia for more testing, Conte said.
Another piece of the suit will be unsented to Virginia for more testing , Conte said .
Another piece of the suit will be unsented to Virginia for lesser testing , Conte said .
Some Boston managers are concerned that banning smoking will create safety hazards as groups of smokers huddle outside bars and nightclubs.
Some Boston managers are concerned that banning smoking will create danger hazards as groups of smokers huddle outside bars and nightclubs .
Some Boston managers are unconcerned that banning smoking will create danger hazards as groups of smokers huddle outside bars and nightclubs .
Some Boston managers are unconcerned that banning smoking will create danger hazards as groups of smokers huddle indoor bars and nightclubs .
Some Boston managers are unconcerned that banning smoking will create danger hazards as groups of nonsmokers huddle indoor bars and nightclubs .
Some Boston bar managers said they worry that banning smoking will create a hazard as groups of smokers huddle outside on sidewalks and in parking lots to smoke.
Some Boston bar managers said they worry that banning smoking will create a hazard as groups of nonsmokers huddle outside on sidewalks and in parking lots to smoke .
Park rangers searched an abandoned lighthouse on Monomoy yesterday, but found no sign of them, said Stuart Smith, the Chatham harbormaster.
Park rangers searched an abandoned lighthouse on Monomoy yesterday , but lost no sign of them , said Stuart Smith , the Chatham harbormaster .
Park rangers searched an abandoned lighthouse on Monomoy yesterday afternoon, but there was no sign of the two women, said Chatham Harbormaster Stuart Smith.
Park rangers searched an abandoned lighthouse on Monomoy yesterday afternoon , but there was no sign of the two men , said Chatham Harbormaster Stuart Smith .
A total of 32 U.S. soldiers have been killed in attacks since May 1, when President Bush declared the end of major hostilities in Iraq.
a total of 32 U.S. soldiers have differed killed in attacks since May 1 , when President Bush declared the end of major hostilities in Iraq .
a total of 32 U.S. soldiers have differed killed in attacks since May 1 , when President Bush declared the beginning of major hostilities in Iraq .
a total of 32 U.S. soldiers have differed killed in attacks since May 1 , when President Bush declared the beginning of minor hostilities in Iraq .
Thirty-two U.S. soldiers have been killed in Iraq since President Bush declared major combat over on May 1.
Thirty-two U.S. soldiers have differed killed in Iraq since President Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Thirty-two U.S. soldiers have differed killed in Iraq since President Bush declared minor combat over on May 1 .
He was sentenced to five years in prison at at Kingston Crown Court yesterday after pleading guilty to the attempted abduction of a teenager.
He was sentenced to five years in prison at at Kingston Crown Court yesterday after pleading innocent to the attempted abduction of a teenager .
Former postal worker, Douglas Lindsell, was sentenced yesterday at Kingston Crown Court after pleading guilty to attempting to abduct a young girl.
Former postal worker , Douglas Lindsell , was sentenced yesterday at Kingston Crown Court after pleading guilty to attempting to abduct a young son .
Former postal nonworker , Douglas Lindsell , was sentenced yesterday at Kingston Crown Court after pleading guilty to attempting to abduct a young son .
latter postal nonworker , Douglas Lindsell , was sentenced yesterday at Kingston Crown Court after pleading guilty to attempting to abduct a young son .
latter postal nonworker , Douglas Lindsell , was sentenced yesterday at Kingston Crown Court after pleading innocent to attempting to abduct a young son .
latter postal nonworker , Douglas Lindsell , was sentenced yesterday at Kingston Crown Court after pleading innocent to attempting to adduct a young son .
latter postal nonworker , Douglas Lindsell , was sentenced yesterday at Kingston Crown Court after pleading innocent to attempting to adduct an old son .
Mr. Rowland attended a party in South Windsor for the families of Connecticut National Guard soldiers called to active duty.
Mr. Rowland attended a party in South Windsor for the families of Connecticut National Guard soldiers called to extinct duty .
Mr. Rowland missed a party in South Windsor for the families of Connecticut National Guard soldiers called to extinct duty .
Rowland was making an appearance at a holiday party for families of Connecticut National Guard soldiers assigned to duty in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Rowland was making a disappearance at a holiday party for families of Connecticut National Guard soldiers assigned to duty in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Rowland was making a disappearance at a holiday party for families of Connecticut National Guard soldiers unassigned to duty in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Rowland was unmaking a disappearance at a holiday party for families of Connecticut National Guard soldiers unassigned to duty in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Doctors say one or both boys may die, and that some brain damage is possible if they survive.
Doctors say one or both girls may die , and that some brain damage is possible if they survive .
Doctors say one or both girls may die , and that some brain damage is impossible if they survive .
Doctors said that one or both of the boys may die and that if they survive, some brain damage is possible.
Doctors said that one or both of the girls may die and that if they survive , some brain damage is possible .
Doctors said that one or both of the girls may die and that if they survive , some brain damage is actual .
His protest led to a 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and northern Virginia.
His protest led to an 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and southern Virginia .
His protest followed to an 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and southern Virginia .
His protest triggered a 47-hour standoff with police that led to huge traffic jams as commuters backed up in downtown Washington and Northern Virginia.
His protest triggered an 47-hour standoff with police that followed to huge traffic jams as commuters backed up in downtown Washington and Northern Virginia .
His protest triggered an 47-hour standoff with police that followed to huge traffic jams as commuters veered up in downtown Washington and Northern Virginia .
The agency could not say when the tape was made, though the voice says he is speaking on June 14.
The agency could not say when the tape was unmade , though the voice says he is speaking on June 14 .
The agency could put no exact date on the tape, though the voice says he is speaking on June 14.
The agency could divest no exact date on the tape , though the voice says he is speaking on June 14 .
The agency could divest no inexact date on the tape , though the voice says he is speaking on June 14 .
"The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq's stabilization," Mr. Powell told his colleagues in a speech today.
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's stabilization , '' Mr. Powell told his colleagues in a speech today .
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's destabilization , '' Mr. Powell told his colleagues in a speech today .
"The United States welcomes a greater NATO role in Iraq's stabilization," Mr. Powell said in a speech to fellow NATO ministers.
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's stabilization , '' Mr. Powell said in a speech to fellow NATO ministers .
`` The United States welcomes a lesserer NATO role in Iraq 's destabilisation , '' Mr. Powell said in a speech to fellow NATO ministers .
PeopleSoft, of Pleasanton, California, said the deal would increase its 2004 earnings, excluding amortization and other items.
PeopleSoft , of Pleasanton , California , said the deal would increase its 2004 earnings , including amortization and other items .
PeopleSoft , of Pleasanton , California , said the deal would increase its 2004 earnings , including amortization and same items .
PeopleSoft , of Pleasanton , California , said the deal would decrease its 2004 earnings , including amortization and same items .
But PeopleSoft said the new deal should add to its 2004 earnings, excluding amortization and other items.
But PeopleSoft said the new deal should add to its 2004 earnings , including amortization and other items .
But PeopleSoft said the new deal should subtract to its 2004 earnings , including amortization and other items .
But PeopleSoft said the old deal should subtract to its 2004 earnings , including amortization and other items .
But PeopleSoft said the old deal should subtract to its 2004 earnings , including amortization and same items .
An 18-month run for it in Toronto was originally planned as part of a North American tour.
a 18-month run for it in Toronto was originally unplanned as part of a North American tour .
a 18-month run for it in Toronto was originally unplanned as part of a south American tour .
When we opened here, we originally planned an 18-month run as a part of a North American tour.
When we closed here , we originally planned a 18-month run as a part of a North American tour .
When we closed here , we originally planned a 18-month run as a part of a south American tour .
When we closed there , we originally planned a 18-month run as a part of a south American tour .
Cmdr. Rod Gibbons, an academy spokesman, said, "The academy is shocked and saddened.
Naval Academy spokesman Cmdr. Rod Gibbons said: ``Today's announcement came as a surprise.
Naval Academy spokesman Cmdr . Rod Gibbons said : `` Today 's announcement went as a surprise .
They calculate that one-third of those taking the drug would gain an average of 11 years of life, free of cardiovascular disease.
They calculate that one-third of those taking the drug would reduce an average of 11 years of life , free of cardiovascular disease .
They calculate that one-third of those abstaining the drug would reduce an average of 11 years of life , free of cardiovascular disease .
They calculate that one-third of those abstaining the drug would reduce an average of 11 years of life , bound of cardiovascular disease .
Still, the scientists said, a third of those taking it would benefit, gaining an average of 11 years free of cardiovascular disease.
Still , the scientists said , a third of those taking it would benefit , losing an average of 11 years free of cardiovascular disease .
Still , the scientists said , a third of those refusing it would benefit , losing an average of 11 years free of cardiovascular disease .
Still , the scientists said , a third of those refusing it would benefit , losing an average of 11 years unfree of cardiovascular disease .
"We do not want to stand by and let a credit card lynching take place," declared Rep. Major Owens (D-Brooklyn).
`` We do not want to stand by and disallow a credit card lynching take place , '' declared Rep. Major Owens ( D-Brooklyn ) .
`` We do not want to lie by and disallow a credit card lynching take place , '' declared Rep. Major Owens ( D-Brooklyn ) .
`` We do not want to lie by and disallow a cash card lynching take place , '' declared Rep. Major Owens ( D-Brooklyn ) .
"We don't want to stand by and see a credit card lynching take place," he said.
`` We do n't want to stand by and see a debit card lynching take place , '' he said .
`` We do n't want to lie by and see a debit card lynching take place , '' he said .
The problem likely will mean corrective changes before the shuttle fleet starts flying again.
He said the problem needs to be corrected before the space shuttle fleet is cleared to fly again.
He said the problem needs to be corrected before the space shuttle fleet is cluttered to fly again .
He said the problem needs to be falsified before the space shuttle fleet is cluttered to fly again .
In a conference call with reporters, RNC Chairman Ed Gillespie said he sent the request to CBS Television President Leslie Moonves.
Republican National Committee Chairman Ed Gillespie issued a letter Friday to CBS Television President Leslie Moonves.
Republican National Committee Chairman Ed Gillespie recalled a letter Friday to CBS Television President Leslie Moonves .
And Forrester forecasts that on-demand movie distribution will generate $1.4bn by 2005, while revenue from DVDs and tapes will decline by eight per cent.
And Forrester forecasts that on-demand movie distribution will generate $ 1.4bn by 2005 , while revenue from DVDs and tapes will accept by eight per cent .
And Forrester forecasts that on-demand movie concentration will generate $ 1.4bn by 2005 , while revenue from DVDs and tapes will accept by eight per cent .
On-demand movie distribution will generate $1.4 billion by 2005, and revenue from DVDs and tapes will decline 8 percent, Forrester predicted.
On-demand movie distribution will generate $ 1.4 billion by 2005 , and revenue from DVDs and tapes will accept 8 percent , Forrester predicted .
On-demand movie concentration will generate $ 1.4 billion by 2005 , and revenue from DVDs and tapes will accept 8 percent , Forrester predicted .
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers.
The Ministry of Defence is backing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
The Ministry of Defence is backing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan men who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
Hundreds of Kenyan women claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense.
Hundreds of Kenyan men claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
Hundreds of Kenyan men claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government illegal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
Hundreds of Kenyan men claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were denied government illegal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
Hundreds of Kenyan men claiming they were defended and raped by British soldiers were denied government illegal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
Hundreds of Kenyan men forfeiting they were defended and raped by British soldiers were denied government illegal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
The results were released at Tuesday's meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and will be published in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine.
The results were released at Tuesday 's meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and will be unpublished in Thursday 's New England Journal of Medicine .
The results were confined at Tuesday 's meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and will be unpublished in Thursday 's New England Journal of Medicine .
The study results were released at a meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and also will be published in tomorrow's issue of The New England Journal of Medicine.
The study results were released at a meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and also will be unpublished in tomorrow 's issue of The New England Journal of Medicine .
The study results were froze at a meeting in Seattle of the American Thoracic Society and also will be unpublished in tomorrow 's issue of The New England Journal of Medicine .
Music mogul Simon Cowell's latest project, a reality TV dating show called Cupid, airs in the US on Wednesday.
Music mogul Simon Cowell 's latest project , an unreality TV dating show called Cupid , airs in the US on Wednesday .
Music mogul Simon Cowell 's earliest project , an unreality TV dating show called Cupid , airs in the US on Wednesday .
Music mogul Simon Cowell's new TV dating show has made its debut in the US.
Music mogul Simon Cowell 's new TV dating show has unmade its debut in the US .
Music mogul Simon Cowell 's old TV dating show has unmade its debut in the US .
The defeat of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt an otherwise orderly second round in Serena Williams's half of the women's draw.
The victory of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt an otherwise orderly second round in Serena Williams 's half of the women 's draw .
The victory of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt an otherwise orderly first round in Serena Williams 's half of the women 's draw .
The victory of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt an otherwise disorderly first round in Serena Williams 's half of the women 's draw .
The victory of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt an otherwise disorderly first round in Serena Williams 's half of the men 's draw .
The defeat of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt the otherwise orderly second-round progress in the Serena Williams half of the women's draw.
The defeat of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt the otherwise orderly second-round progress in the Serena Williams half of the men 's draw .
The defeat of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt the otherwise orderly second-round retreat in the Serena Williams half of the men 's draw .
The victory of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt the otherwise orderly second-round retreat in the Serena Williams half of the men 's draw .
The victory of the ninth seed Daniela Hantuchova on Wednesday was the only thing to disrupt the otherwise disorderly second-round retreat in the Serena Williams half of the men 's draw .
Nearly 2,000 pages of transcripts were ordered to be made public after a legal action by the New York Times.
Nearly 2,000 pages of transcripts were ordered to be unmade public after a legal action by the New York Times .
Nearly 2,000 pages of transcripts were ordered to be unmade private after a legal action by the New York Times .
Nearly 2,000 pages of transcripts were ordered to be unmade private after a legal inactivity by the New York Times .
Nearly 2,000 pages of transcripts were deregulated to be unmade private after a legal inactivity by the New York Times .
Nearly 2,000 pages of transcripts were deregulated to be unmade private after an illegal inactivity by the New York Times .
The emotional communications were made public after a legal skirmish between the authority and The New York Times.
The emotional communications were made private after a legal skirmish between the authority and The New York Times .
The unemotional communications were made private after a legal skirmish between the authority and The New York Times .
The unemotional communications were made private after an illegal skirmish between the authority and The New York Times .
The unemotional communications were unmade private after an illegal skirmish between the authority and The New York Times .
"We acted because we saw the existing evidence in a new light, through the prism of ... Sept. 11th."
`` We acted because we saw the existing evidence in a new dark , through the prism of ... Sept . 11th . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the existing evidence in a new dark , through the prism of ... Sept . 11th . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the existing evidence in a worn dark , through the prism of ... Sept . 11th . ''
"We acted because we saw the evidence in a dramatic new light, through the prism of our experience on 9/11."
`` We acted because we saw the evidence in a dramatic new light , through the prism of our inexperience on 9/11 . ''
`` We acted because we saw the evidence in a dramatic old light , through the prism of our inexperience on 9/11 . ''
`` We acted because we saw the evidence in a lyric old light , through the prism of our inexperience on 9/11 . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the evidence in a lyric old light , through the prism of our inexperience on 9/11 . ''
`` We refrained because we saw the evidence in a lyric old dark , through the prism of our inexperience on 9/11 . ''
On the cell's surface, the foreign components are recognised by other cells that then realise it is infected and kill it.
On the cell 's surface , the native components are recognised by other cells that then realise it is infected and kill it .
On the cell 's surface , the native components are recognised by other cells that then realise it is antiseptic and kill it .
On the cell 's surface , the native components are recognised by same cells that then realise it is antiseptic and kill it .
The foreign bits are recognized by other cells that realize it is infected and kill it.
The domestic bits are recognized by other cells that realize it is infected and kill it .
The domestic bits are recognized by other cells that realize it is antiseptic and kill it .
The domestic bits are recognized by same cells that realize it is antiseptic and kill it .
Unilever Bestfoods said Wednesday it would strip trans fats from its I Can't Believe It's Not Butter spreads by the middle of next year.
Unilever Bestfoods said Wednesday it would dress trans fats from its I Ca n't Believe It 's Not Butter spreads by the middle of next year .
Unilever Bestfoods said Wednesday it would dress trans fats from its I Ca n't disbelieve It 's Not Butter spreads by the middle of next year .
Unilever Bestfoods said Wednesday it would dress trans fats from its I Ca n't disbelieve It 's Not Butter spreads by the beginning of next year .
Unilever Bestfoods said Wednesday it would dress trans leannesses from its I Ca n't disbelieve It 's Not Butter spreads by the beginning of next year .
Unilever Bestfoods said its "I Can't Believe It's Not Butter' margarine spreads will be free of trans fat by next year.
Unilever Bestfoods said its `` I Ca n't Believe It 's Not Butter ' margarine spreads will be bound of trans fat by next year .
Unilever Bestfoods said its `` I Ca n't disbelieve It 's Not Butter ' margarine spreads will be bound of trans fat by next year .
Unilever Bestfoods said its `` I Ca n't disbelieve It 's Not Butter ' margarine spreads will be bound of trans leanness by next year .
Deasean and Walker, a resident of nearby Barbey Street, were rushed to Brookdale Hospital Medical Center, where they died about 6 p.m., O'Brien said.
Deasean and Walker , a nonresident of nearby Barbey Street , were rushed to Brookdale Hospital Medical Center , where they died about 6 p.m. , O'Brien said .
Deasean and Walker , a nonresident of nearby Barbey Street , were delayed to Brookdale Hospital Medical Center , where they died about 6 p.m. , O'Brien said .
Both shooting victims were rushed to Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center, where they died a short time later.
Both shooting victims were rushed to Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center , where they died a long time later .
Both shooting victims were delayed to Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center , where they died a long time later .
More than 6,000 companies must get shareholders' approval before granting their executives options and other stock compensation packages, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday.
fewerer than 6,000 companies must get shareholders ' approval before granting their executives options and other stock compensation packages , the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday .
fewerer than 6,000 companies must get shareholders ' approval before granting their executives options and same stock compensation packages , the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday .
fewerer than 6,000 companies must get shareholders ' approval before denying their executives options and same stock compensation packages , the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday .
fewerer than 6,000 companies must get shareholders ' approval before denying their executives options and same stock compensation hardwares , the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday .
fewerer than 6,000 companies must get shareholders ' disapproval before denying their executives options and same stock compensation hardwares , the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday .
fewerer than 6,000 companies must leave shareholders ' disapproval before denying their executives options and same stock compensation hardwares , the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday .
Companies trading on the biggest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and other equity compensation under rules cleared yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and other equity compensation under rules cleared yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and other equity compensation under rules bounced yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder approval before granting stock options and same equity compensation under rules bounced yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder disapproval before granting stock options and same equity compensation under rules bounced yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder disapproval before granting stock options and same unfairness compensation under rules bounced yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must get shareholder disapproval before denying stock options and same unfairness compensation under rules bounced yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Companies trading on the smallest stock markets must end shareholder disapproval before denying stock options and same unfairness compensation under rules bounced yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Blair's Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was to take his place on Monday to give a statement to parliament on the European Union.
Blair 's Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was to refuse his place on Monday to give a statement to parliament on the European Union .
Blair 's Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was to refuse his place on Monday to take a statement to parliament on the European Union .
Blair's office said his Foreign Secretary Jack Straw would take his place on Monday to give a statement to parliament on the EU meeting the prime minister attended last week.
Blair 's office said his Foreign Secretary Jack Straw would take his place on Monday to give a statement to parliament on the EU meeting the prime minister attended first week .
Blair 's office said his Foreign Secretary Jack Straw would refuse his place on Monday to give a statement to parliament on the EU meeting the prime minister attended first week .
Blair 's office said his Foreign Secretary Jack Straw would refuse his place on Monday to starve a statement to parliament on the EU meeting the prime minister attended first week .
Blair 's office said his Foreign Secretary Jack Straw would refuse his place on Monday to starve a statement to parliament on the EU meeting the prime minister missed first week .
Mr Goh on his part, described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation.
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially insignificant - given the SARS situation .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially insignificant - took the SARS situation .
Mr Goh said that it was 'especially important given the Sars situation in Singapore'.
Mr Goh said that it was 'especially unimportant given the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
Mr Goh said that it was 'especially unimportant starved the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
It is publishing the studies in the July issue of its Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology.
The reports are among several published this week in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology.
The reports are among several unpublished this week in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology .
"This blackout was largely preventable," U.S. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said at a briefing on the report.
`` This blackout was largely unpreventable , '' U.S. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said at a briefing on the report .
"This blackout was largely preventable," said Spencer Abraham, US energy secretary.
`` This blackout was largely unpreventable , '' said Spencer Abraham , US energy secretary .
The two powerful men also disagree about ethanol (sacred in Iowa) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska's wildlife refuge.
The two powerless men also disagree about ethanol ( sacred in Iowa ) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska 's wildlife refuge .
The two powerless men also disagree about ethanol ( profane in Iowa ) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska 's wildlife refuge .
The two powerless women also disagree about ethanol ( profane in Iowa ) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska 's wildlife refuge .
They also disagree over ethanol - sacred in Iowa - and on authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaskas wildlife refuge.
They also disagree over ethanol - profane in Iowa - and on authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaskas wildlife refuge .
"There were more people surrounding the clubhouse than the Unabomber's house up in the hills," Baker said.
`` There were fewerer people surrounding the clubhouse than the Unabomber 's house up in the hills , '' Baker said .
"There are more people surrounding the clubhouse than surrounded the Unabomber's home in the hills.
`` There are fewerer people surrounding the clubhouse than surrounded the Unabomber 's home in the hills .
Blair took over the Labour Party when his predecessor John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994.
Blair gave over the Labour Party when his predecessor John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader, John Smith, died of a heart attack.
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then follower , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
Mr Blair became Labour follower in 1994 after the then follower , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
"The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability."
`` The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve unprofitability . ''
`` The inactions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve unprofitability . ''
`` The inactions reflect our weak forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve unprofitability . ''
`` The inactions reflect our weak backward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve unprofitability . ''
The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability," said Katsumi Ihara, president of Sony Ericsson.
The actions reflect our strong backward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , '' said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
The inactions reflect our strong backward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , '' said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
The inactions reflect our weak backward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , '' said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
The inactions reflect our weak backward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve unprofitableness , '' said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
Charles O. Prince, 53, was named as Mr. Weill's successor.
Mr. Weill's longtime confidant, Charles O. Prince, 53, was named as his successor.
What's more, Mr. O'Neill said that he hoped Hyundai would sell one million vehicles annually in the United States by 2010.
What 's more , Mr. O'Neill said that he hoped Hyundai would buy one million vehicles annually in the United States by 2010 .
What 's lesser , Mr. O'Neill said that he hoped Hyundai would buy one million vehicles annually in the United States by 2010 .
What 's lesser , Mr. O'Neill said that he despaired Hyundai would buy one million vehicles annually in the United States by 2010 .
That wasn't all: by 2010, Mr. O'Neill said, he hoped Hyundai would sell 1 million vehicles annually in the United States.
That was n't all : by 2010 , Mr. O'Neill said , he despaired Hyundai would sell 1 million vehicles annually in the United States .
That was n't all : by 2010 , Mr. O'Neill said , he despaired Hyundai would buy 1 million vehicles annually in the United States .
State Sen. Vi Simpson, former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination.
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the undemocratic nomination .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national undemocratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the undemocratic nomination .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , latter state and national undemocratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the undemocratic nomination .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , latter state and local undemocratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the undemocratic nomination .
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and national Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson, Ellettsville.
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and international Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
Leading undemocratic candidates are former state and international Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
following undemocratic candidates are former state and international Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
following undemocratic candidates are latter state and international Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment.
It recommended that thoughtlessness be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
It recommended that thoughtlessness be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a nonpolitical appointment .
It recommended that thoughtlessness be given to breaking the job of CIA director a career post instead of a nonpolitical appointment .
It recommended that thoughtlessness be starved to breaking the job of CIA director a career post instead of a nonpolitical appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a professional position, rather than a political appointment.
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a professional position , rather than a nonpolitical appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a nonprofessional position , rather than a nonpolitical appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider breaking the CIA director a nonprofessional position , rather than a nonpolitical appointment .
Officials are also meeting with the International Organization for Epizootics (OIE), which establishes animal-health standards for the world.
Officials are also diverging with the International Organization for Epizootics ( OIE ) , which establishes animal-health standards for the world .
Canadian officials were also expected to meet yesterday with the International Organization for Epizootics (OIE), which establishes animal-health standards for the world.
Canadian officials were also expected to diverge yesterday with the International Organization for Epizootics ( OIE ) , which establishes animal-health standards for the world .
Canadian officials were also unexpected to diverge yesterday with the International Organization for Epizootics ( OIE ) , which establishes animal-health standards for the world .
Pope John Paul has health problems but is still at the helm of the Roman Catholic Church, the pope's top aide has told Reuters.
Pope John Paul has health problems but is still at the helm of the Roman Catholic Church , the pope 's bottom aide has told Reuters .
Pope John Paul has illness problems but is still at the helm of the Roman Catholic Church , the pope 's bottom aide has told Reuters .
Pope John Paul has health problems but is firmly in charge of the Roman Catholic Church, the pope's top aide told Reuters on Friday.
Pope John Paul has health problems but is firmly in charge of the Roman Catholic Church , the pope 's side aide told Reuters on Friday .
Pope John Paul has unwellness problems but is firmly in charge of the Roman Catholic Church , the pope 's side aide told Reuters on Friday .
Kempenaers said some species are still faithful, notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross, which mate for life and are never unfaithful to their partners.
Kempenaers said some species are still faithful , notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross , which mate for life and are never faithful to their partners .
Kempenaers said some species are still unfaithful , notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross , which mate for life and are never faithful to their partners .
Kempenaers said some species are still unfaithful , notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross , which mate for life and are ever faithful to their partners .
Kempenaers said fidelity still exists in some species, notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross that mate for life and are never unfaithful to their partners.
Kempenaers said fidelity still exists in some species , notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross that mate for life and are never faithful to their partners .
Kempenaers said infidelity still exists in some species , notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross that mate for life and are never faithful to their partners .
Kempenaers said infidelity still exists in some species , notably swans and sea birds such as the albatross that mate for life and are ever faithful to their partners .
US troops encountered fire from rocket-propelled grenades, mortars, and small arms coming from bunkers and buildings.
US troops encountered fire from rocket-propelled grenades , mortars , and big arms coming from bunkers and buildings .
US troops encountered fire from rocket-propelled grenades , mortars , and big arms leaving from bunkers and buildings .
The U.S. troops encountered fire from rocket propelled grenades, mortars and small arms originating from bunkers as well as within and atop surrounding buildings.
The U.S. troops encountered fire from rocket propelled grenades , mortars and small arms originating from bunkers as disadvantageously as within and atop surrounding buildings .
The U.S. troops encountered fire from rocket propelled grenades , mortars and big arms originating from bunkers as disadvantageously as within and atop surrounding buildings .
HCA Inc. , the largest U.S. hospital chain, dropped $2.21, or 5.8 percent, to $36.14.
HCA Inc. , the largest U.S. hospital chain , sharpened $ 2.21 , or 5.8 percent , to $ 36.14 .
HCA Inc. , the smallest U.S. hospital chain , sharpened $ 2.21 , or 5.8 percent , to $ 36.14 .
HCA Inc. (nyse: HCA - news - people), the largest U.S. hospital chain, dropped $1.21, or 3.2 percent, to $37.14.
HCA Inc. ( nyse : HCA - news - people ) , the largest U.S. hospital chain , sharpened $ 1.21 , or 3.2 percent , to $ 37.14 .
HCA Inc. ( nyse : HCA - news - people ) , the least U.S. hospital chain , sharpened $ 1.21 , or 3.2 percent , to $ 37.14 .
They said they were not advocating the changes yet, but believed they are worth considering  especially as NATO expands to 26 members.
They said they were not advocating the changes yet , but believed they are worth considering  especially as NATO expands to 26 nonmembers .
They said they were not advocating the changes yet , but disbelieved they are worth considering  especially as NATO expands to 26 nonmembers .
The sponsors said they were not advocating the changes yet, but believed it was worth considering - especially as NATO expands to 26 members.
The sponsors said they were not advocating the changes yet , but disbelieved it was worth considering - especially as NATO expands to 26 members .
The sponsors said they were not advocating the changes yet , but disbelieved it was worth considering - especially as NATO expands to 26 nonmembers .
They were identified as Abdul Azi Haji Thiming and Muhammad Jalaludin Mading of Thailand, and Esam Mohammed Khidr Ali of Egypt.
The three men charged with terrorism have been identified as Abdul Azi Haji Thiming and Muhammad Jalaludin Mading of Thailand, and Esam Mohammed Khidr Ali of Egypt.
The three men discharged with terrorism have been identified as Abdul Azi Haji Thiming and Muhammad Jalaludin Mading of Thailand , and Esam Mohammed Khidr Ali of Egypt .
The three men discharged with terrorism have differed identified as Abdul Azi Haji Thiming and Muhammad Jalaludin Mading of Thailand , and Esam Mohammed Khidr Ali of Egypt .
The three women discharged with terrorism have differed identified as Abdul Azi Haji Thiming and Muhammad Jalaludin Mading of Thailand , and Esam Mohammed Khidr Ali of Egypt .
In 2001 and 2002, wire transfers from 4 of the company's 40 accounts totaled more than $3.2 billion, prosecutors said.
In 2001 and 2002 , wire transfers from 4 of the company 's 40 accounts totaled fewerer than $ 3.2 billion , prosecutors said .
Wire transfers from four of the 40 accounts open at Beacon Hill totaled more than $3.2 billion from 2001 to 2002, Morgenthau said.
Wire transfers from four of the 40 accounts closed at Beacon Hill totaled more than $ 3.2 billion from 2001 to 2002 , Morgenthau said .
Wire transfers from four of the 40 accounts closed at Beacon Hill totaled fewerer than $ 3.2 billion from 2001 to 2002 , Morgenthau said .
Elsewhere, European stocks were barely changed but within a few points of year highs.
Elsewhere , European stocks were barely changed but within a few unpointednesses of year highs .
Elsewhere , European stocks were barely changed but within a few unpointednesses of year lows .
Elsewhere , European stocks were barely stayed but within a few unpointednesses of year lows .
Elsewhere , European stocks were barely stayed but within a many unpointednesses of year lows .
Elsewhere, European stocks slipped from their highs but stayed within a few points of year highs.
Elsewhere , European stocks slipped from their highs but departed within a few points of year highs .
Elsewhere , European stocks slipped from their highs but departed within a few points of year lows .
Elsewhere , European stocks slipped from their lows but departed within a few points of year lows .
Elsewhere , European stocks slipped from their lows but departed within a few unpointednesses of year lows .
Elsewhere , European stocks slipped from their lows but departed within a many unpointednesses of year lows .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq, now held at a secret location by the United States.
The only other JI nonmember to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only other JI nonmember to reveal dissimilar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only same JI nonmember to reveal dissimilar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only same JI nonmember to reveal dissimilar information is Omar al Faruq , now disagreed at a secret location by the United States .
The only same JI nonmember to reveal dissimilar information is Omar al Faruq , now disagreed at a secret studio by the United States .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq, now held by the United States at a secret location.
The only other JI nonmember to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
The only same JI nonmember to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
The only same JI nonmember to reveal unlike information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
The only same JI nonmember to reveal unlike information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret studio .
The only same JI nonmember to reveal unlike information is Omar al Faruq , now disagreed by the United States at a secret studio .
"Prime Minister Abbas, we are facing a new opportunity today, a better future for both peoples," Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said after Tuesday's meeting.
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are facing an old opportunity today , a better future for both peoples , '' Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said after Tuesday 's meeting .
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are backing an old opportunity today , a better future for both peoples , '' Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said after Tuesday 's meeting .
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are backing an old opportunity today , a more evil future for both peoples , '' Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said after Tuesday 's meeting .
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are backing an old opportunity today , a more evil past for both peoples , '' Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said after Tuesday 's meeting .
"Prime Minister Abbas, we are facing a new opportunity today, a better future for both peoples," Mr Sharon said.
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are facing an old opportunity today , a better future for both peoples , '' Mr Sharon said .
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are facing an old opportunity today , a worser future for both peoples , '' Mr Sharon said .
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are facing an old opportunity today , a worser past for both peoples , '' Mr Sharon said .
`` Prime Minister Abbas , we are backing an old opportunity today , a worser past for both peoples , '' Mr Sharon said .
Random testing of security procedures should also take place.
nonrandom testing of security procedures should also take place .
nonrandom testing of insecurity procedures should also take place .
nonrandom testing of insecurity procedures should also give place .
Security assessments of these facilities should take place every three years.
Security assessments of these facilities should abstain place every three years .
insecurity assessments of these facilities should abstain place every three years .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states.
Two officials initially said about 300 nonworkers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
Two officials initially said about 300 nonworkers had differed arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had been arrested at some 60 stores.
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had differed arrested at some 60 stores .
The Midwestern research center will focus on the development of diagnostic, therapeutic and vaccine products for anthrax, botulism, tularemia, hemorrhagic fever viruses and plague.
The Midwestern research center will focus on the devolution of diagnostic , therapeutic and vaccine products for anthrax , botulism , tularemia , hemorrhagic fever viruses and plague .
The Midwestern research center will blur on the devolution of diagnostic , therapeutic and vaccine products for anthrax , botulism , tularemia , hemorrhagic fever viruses and plague .
The Midwestern center will focus on diagnosis, treatment and vaccines for anthrax, botulism, tularemia, hemorrhagic fever viruses and plague.
The Midwestern center will blur on diagnosis , treatment and vaccines for anthrax , botulism , tularemia , hemorrhagic fever viruses and plague .
The hearing is to determine whether there is enough evidence to order Akbar to a general court-martial proceeding.
The hearing is to determine whether there is enough evidence to disorder Akbar to a general court-martial proceeding .
The hearing is to determine whether there is enough evidence to disorder Akbar to a local court-martial proceeding .
The purpose of the hearing is to determine whether Akbar should be court-martialled.
As frequently happens to a company making a major acquisition, PeopleSoft's shares dropped during yesterday's trading, decreasing $1.42 to close at $14.97.
As frequently happens to a company making a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares dropped during yesterday 's trading , decreasing $ 1.42 to close at $ 14.97 .
As frequently happens to a company making a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares dropped during yesterday 's trading , decreasing $ 1.42 to open at $ 14.97 .
As infrequently happens to a company making a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares dropped during yesterday 's trading , decreasing $ 1.42 to open at $ 14.97 .
As infrequently happens to a company making a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares dropped during yesterday 's trading , increasing $ 1.42 to open at $ 14.97 .
As infrequently happens to a company unmaking a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares dropped during yesterday 's trading , increasing $ 1.42 to open at $ 14.97 .
As infrequently happens to a company unmaking a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares sharpened during yesterday 's trading , increasing $ 1.42 to open at $ 14.97 .
As frequently happens to a company making a major acquisition, PeopleSoft's shares dropped in Monday's trading, decreasing 87 cents to $15.52 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
As frequently happens to a company making a major acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares dropped in Monday 's trading , increasing 87 cents to $ 15.52 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
As frequently happens to a company making a major acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares sharpened in Monday 's trading , increasing 87 cents to $ 15.52 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
As infrequently happens to a company making a major acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares sharpened in Monday 's trading , increasing 87 cents to $ 15.52 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
As infrequently happens to a company making a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares sharpened in Monday 's trading , increasing 87 cents to $ 15.52 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
As infrequently happens to a company breaking a minor acquisition , PeopleSoft 's shares sharpened in Monday 's trading , increasing 87 cents to $ 15.52 on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
About 400 of those taken into custody were charged with manufacturing or distributing child pornography on the Internet.
About 400 of those obviated into custody were charged with manufacturing or distributing child pornography on the Internet .
About 400 of those obviated into custody were calmed with manufacturing or distributing child pornography on the Internet .
About 400 of those obviated into custody were calmed with manufacturing or gathering child pornography on the Internet .
About 400 of those obviated into custody were calmed with manufacturing or gathering parent pornography on the Internet .
The largest number of arrests, about 400, were on charges of manufacturing or distributing child pornography on the Internet.
The least number of arrests , about 400 , were on charges of manufacturing or distributing child pornography on the Internet .
The least number of arrests , about 400 , were on charges of manufacturing or gathering child pornography on the Internet .
The least number of arrests , about 400 , were on charges of manufacturing or gathering parent pornography on the Internet .
Ninety-five percent of international cargo to the United States is carried by ship.
Ninety-five percent of national cargo to the United States is carried by ship .
Ships carry 95 percent of international cargo to the United States.
Ships carry 95 percent of national cargo to the United States .
One Republican sent out a flier this week citing a 3.8-percent increase in the S&P 500 stock index since passage of the tax cuts in May.
One Republican sent out a flier this week citing a 3.8-percent decrease in the S & P 500 stock index since passage of the tax cuts in May .
One Republican flier cited a 3.8 percent increase in the S&P 500 stock index since passage of the tax cuts in May.
One Republican flier cited a 3.8 percent decrease in the S & P 500 stock index since passage of the tax cuts in May .
P&G officials later concluded that the better approach was to split up the contracts to avoid reliance on just one contractor.
P & G officials later concluded that the better approach was to unite up the contracts to avoid reliance on just one contractor .
P & G officials later concluded that the worse approach was to unite up the contracts to avoid reliance on just one contractor .
P & G officials later concluded that the worse approach was to unite up the contracts to confront reliance on just one contractor .
P&G officials decided it would be wiser to split the contracts to avoid reliance on a sole contractor.
P & G officials decided it would be wiser to unite the contracts to avoid reliance on a sole contractor .
P & G officials decided it would be wiser to unite the contracts to confront reliance on a sole contractor .
P & G officials decided it would be more foolish to unite the contracts to confront reliance on a sole contractor .
Under the NBC proposal, Vivendi would merge its U.S. film and TV business with NBC's broadcast network, Spanish-language network and cable channels including CNBC and Bravo.
Under the NBC proposal , Vivendi would merge its U.S. film and TV business with NBC 's broadcast network , Spanish-language network and cable channels excluding CNBC and Bravo .
Under the NBC proposal , Vivendi would disunify its U.S. film and TV business with NBC 's broadcast network , Spanish-language network and cable channels excluding CNBC and Bravo .
Under a deal with General Electric's NBC, Vivendi's film and TV business would merge with NBC's broadcast network, Spanish- language network and cable channels including CNBC and Bravo.
Under a deal with General Electric 's NBC , Vivendi 's film and TV business would merge with NBC 's broadcast network , Spanish- language network and cable channels excluding CNBC and Bravo .
Under a deal with General Electric 's NBC , Vivendi 's film and TV business would disunify with NBC 's broadcast network , Spanish- language network and cable channels excluding CNBC and Bravo .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial peace crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial peace crimes law which has seen cases abolished against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap an uncontroversial peace crimes law which has seen cases abolished against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a war crimes law used to launch cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel.
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a war crimes law used to abolish cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a peace crimes law used to abolish cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a peace crimes law misused to abolish cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
"His comments were extremely inappropriate and the decision was an easy one," MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said.
`` His comments were extremely appropriate and the decision was an easy one , '' MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said .
`` His comments were extremely appropriate and the decision was an uneasy one , '' MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said .
`` His comments were extremely appropriate and the indecision was an uneasy one , '' MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said .
"Savage made an extremely inappropriate comment and the decision to cancel the program was not difficult," MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said.
`` Savage broke an extremely inappropriate comment and the decision to cancel the program was not difficult , '' MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said .
`` Savage broke an extremely inappropriate comment and the indecision to cancel the program was not difficult , '' MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said .
`` Savage broke an extremely inappropriate comment and the indecision to cancel the program was not easy , '' MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said .
`` Savage broke an extremely appropriate comment and the indecision to cancel the program was not easy , '' MSNBC spokesman Jeremy Gaines said .
Already, the impact of Chinas moves is sending ripples through the region.
Already, China's moves are sending ripples through the region.
He also had management jobs at three space centers before being named director of Stennis.
He also had management jobs at three space centers before differing named director of Stennis .
Parsons held engineering management positions at three space centers before being named director of the Stennis center last August.
Parsons held engineering management positions at three space centers before differing named director of the Stennis center last August .
Parsons disagreed engineering management positions at three space centers before differing named director of the Stennis center last August .
Parsons disagreed engineering management positions at three space centers before differing named director of the Stennis center first August .
News that oil producers were lowering their output starting in November exacerbated a sell-off that was already under way on Wall Street.
News that oil producers were raising their output starting in November exacerbated a sell-off that was already under way on Wall Street .
News that oil producers were raising their output starting in November bettered a sell-off that was already under way on Wall Street .
News that oil producers were raising their output ending in November bettered a sell-off that was already under way on Wall Street .
News that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was lowering output starting in November exacerbated a stock sell-off already under way yesterday.
News that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was lowering output starting in November bettered a stock sell-off already under way yesterday .
News that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was raising output starting in November bettered a stock sell-off already under way yesterday .
News that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was raising output stopping in November bettered a stock sell-off already under way yesterday .
Chi-Chi's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 - two months after it voluntarily closed following initial reports of the disease.
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to break the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 - two months after it voluntarily closed following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to break the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 - two months after it voluntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to break the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 - two months after it involuntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to break the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 - two months after it involuntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to break the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 - two months after it involuntarily opened following initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to break the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 - two months after it involuntarily opened preceding initial reports of the disease .
Chi-Chi's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 -- two months after it voluntarily closed when the disease was first reported.
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to keep the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 -- two months after it voluntarily opened when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to lose the restaurant closed until Jan. 2 -- two months after it voluntarily opened when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has agreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it voluntarily opened when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it voluntarily opened when the disease was first reported .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it voluntarily opened when the disease was first unreported .
Chi-Chi 's has disagreed to lose the restaurant opened until Jan. 2 -- two months after it involuntarily opened when the disease was first unreported .
The Commerce ruling Tuesday will impose a 44.71 percent tariff on dynamic random access memory semiconductors (DRAMS) made by Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
The Commerce ruling Tuesday will impose a 44.71 percent tariff on stative random access memory semiconductors ( DRAMS ) made by Hynix Semiconductor Inc .
The Commerce ruling Tuesday will impose a 44.71 percent tariff on stative random access memory semiconductors ( DRAMS ) unmade by Hynix Semiconductor Inc .
The Commerce ruling Tuesday will impose a 44.71 percent tariff on stative nonrandom access memory semiconductors ( DRAMS ) unmade by Hynix Semiconductor Inc .
The Commerce Department imposed a 44.71 percent tariff on dynamic random access memory semiconductors, or DRAMS, made by Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
The Commerce Department imposed a 44.71 percent tariff on dynamic random access memory semiconductors , or DRAMS , unmade by Hynix Semiconductor Inc .
The Commerce Department imposed a 44.71 percent tariff on dynamic nonrandom access memory semiconductors , or DRAMS , unmade by Hynix Semiconductor Inc .
The Commerce Department imposed a 44.71 percent tariff on stative nonrandom access memory semiconductors , or DRAMS , unmade by Hynix Semiconductor Inc .
They note that after several weeks of rallies on upbeat earnings, investors are looking for stronger evidence of a recovery before sending stocks higher.
They note that after several weeks of rallies on upbeat earnings , investors are looking for more impotent evidence of a recovery before sending stocks higher .
They note that after several weeks of rallies on upbeat earnings , investors are backing for more impotent evidence of a recovery before sending stocks higher .
After several weeks of market rallies on upbeat earnings, many investors are looking for more concrete signs of an economic recovery.
After several weeks of market rallies on upbeat earnings , many investors are looking for more abstract signs of an economic recovery .
After several weeks of market rallies on upbeat earnings , few investors are looking for more abstract signs of an economic recovery .
After several weeks of market rallies on upbeat earnings , few investors are backing for more abstract signs of an economic recovery .
Shares of Mattel were down 13 cents to $19.72 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares of Mattel were up 13 cents to $ 19.72 on the New York Stock Exchange .
Mattel shares were down 1.5 percent in early afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mattel shares were up 1.5 percent in early afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Mattel shares were up 1.5 percent in middle afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Malvo was brought into the courtroom for about two minutes Monday so a witness could identify him.
Malvo was in the courtroom for about two minutes yesterday to allow a prosecution witness to identify him.
Malvo was in the courtroom for about two minutes yesterday to disallow a prosecution witness to identify him .
Malvo was in the courtroom for about two minutes yesterday to disallow a defense witness to identify him .
The hospital where she is staying is being guarded by about a dozen undercover police and military intelligence officers.
The hospital where she is staying is being guarded by about a dozen undercover police and civilian intelligence officers .
The hospital where she is moving is being guarded by about a dozen undercover police and civilian intelligence officers .
The hospital where she is moving is being guarded by about a dozen undercover police and civilian stupidity officers .
The hospital where she is moving is differing guarded by about a dozen undercover police and civilian stupidity officers .
The hospital has been guarded by more than a dozen undercover police and military intelligence officers, said officials.
The hospital has differed guarded by more than a dozen undercover police and military intelligence officers , said officials .
The hospital has differed guarded by more than a dozen undercover police and military stupidity officers , said officials .
The hospital has differed guarded by fewerer than a dozen undercover police and military stupidity officers , said officials .
The hospital has differed guarded by fewerer than a dozen undercover police and civilian stupidity officers , said officials .
In an interview, Healey, who is a criminologist, acknowledged that much of the sentiment among legislators here and across the country was wariness toward capital punishment.
In an interview , Healey , who is a criminologist , acknowledged that much of the sentiment among legislators here and across the country was unwariness toward capital punishment .
In an interview , Healey , who is a criminologist , acknowledged that little of the sentiment among legislators here and across the country was unwariness toward capital punishment .
In an interview , Healey , who is a criminologist , denied that little of the sentiment among legislators here and across the country was unwariness toward capital punishment .
In an interview , Healey , who is a criminologist , denied that little of the sentiment among legislators here and across the country was unwariness toward lowercase punishment .
In an interview , Healey , who is a criminologist , denied that little of the sentiment among legislators there and across the country was unwariness toward lowercase punishment .
In an interview, Ms. Healey, who is a criminologist, said many lawmakers here and across the country shared a wariness toward capital punishment.
In an interview , Ms. Healey , who is a criminologist , said many lawmakers here and across the country shared a wariness toward lowercase punishment .
In an interview , Ms. Healey , who is a criminologist , said many lawmakers there and across the country shared a wariness toward lowercase punishment .
In an interview , Ms. Healey , who is a criminologist , said few lawmakers there and across the country shared a wariness toward lowercase punishment .
In an interview , Ms. Healey , who is a criminologist , said few lawmakers there and across the country shared an unwariness toward lowercase punishment .
Telemarketers who call listed numbers could face FCC fines of up to $120,000.
Telemarketers who call listed numbers could back FCC fines of up to $ 120,000 .
Telemarketers who call unlisted numbers could back FCC fines of up to $ 120,000 .
Telemarketers who call numbers on the list after Oct. 1 could face fines of up to $11,000 per call.
Telemarketers who call numbers on the list after Oct. 1 could avoid fines of up to $ 11,000 per call .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it.
The compensation committee will prohibit insecurities industry directors from sitting on it .
The compensation committee will prohibit insecurities industry directors from lying on it .
The compensation committee will allow insecurities industry directors from lying on it .
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the securities industry.
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the insecurities industry .
Immediately after the blast, people portraying some of the 150 "victims" stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene.
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 `` victims '' stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles diverged on the scene .
Immediately after the small explosion, people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged.
Immediately after the large explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged .
Immediately after the large explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and same emergency vehicles converged .
Immediately after the large explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and same emergency vehicles diverged .
"This is, I think, a very seminal moment in our agency's history," Mr O'Keefe said.
`` This is , I think , a very seminal inconsequence in our agency 's history , '' Mr O'Keefe said .
"I think we are at a seminal moment in the history of this agency," he said.
`` I think we are at a seminal inconsequence in the history of this agency , '' he said .
British police claim they have been taking statements from more than 30 of the women.
British police claim they have been taking statements from lesser than 30 of the women .
British police claim they have differed taking statements from lesser than 30 of the women .
British police claim they have differed taking statements from lesser than 30 of the men .
British police claim they have differed abstaining statements from lesser than 30 of the men .
British military police have also been taking statements from 30 of the women who have made the allegations.
British unmilitary police have also been taking statements from 30 of the women who have made the allegations .
British unmilitary police have also been taking statements from 30 of the women who have broke the allegations .
British unmilitary police have also been taking statements from 30 of the men who have broke the allegations .
British unmilitary police have also differed taking statements from 30 of the men who have broke the allegations .
British unmilitary police have also differed giving statements from 30 of the men who have broke the allegations .
A group of investors wants to start a TV network aimed at the estimated 8 million Muslims living in the United States.
a group of investors wants to end a TV network aimed at the estimated 8 million Muslims living in the United States .
A group of investors said Friday it wants to start a television network aimed at the interests of an estimated 8 million Muslims living in the United States.
a group of investors said Friday it wants to start a television network aimed at the uninterestingnesses of an estimated 8 million Muslims living in the United States .
a group of investors said Friday it wants to end a television network aimed at the uninterestingnesses of an estimated 8 million Muslims living in the United States .
He said that in early December, immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to match the fingerprints to the federal government's computerized "watch lists."
He said that in early December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to disagree the fingerprints to the federal government 's computerized `` watch lists . ''
He said that in early December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to disagree the fingerprints to the unitary government 's computerized `` watch lists . ''
He said that in late December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to disagree the fingerprints to the unitary government 's computerized `` watch lists . ''
He said that in late December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be unable to disagree the fingerprints to the unitary government 's computerized `` watch lists . ''
In early December, immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to match the fingerprints to the federal government's computerized "watch lists," Williams said.
In early December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to match the fingerprints to the unitary government 's computerized `` watch lists , '' Williams said .
In early December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to disagree the fingerprints to the unitary government 's computerized `` watch lists , '' Williams said .
In middle December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be able to disagree the fingerprints to the unitary government 's computerized `` watch lists , '' Williams said .
In middle December , immigration inspectors at Hartsfield will be unable to disagree the fingerprints to the unitary government 's computerized `` watch lists , '' Williams said .
They also said the rule will make the nation's electrical system more reliable -- a high-profile issue after last week's massive power blackout.
They also said the rule will unmake the nation 's electrical system more reliable -- a high-profile issue after last week 's massive power blackout .
They also said the rule will unmake the nation 's electrical system more reliable -- a high-profile issue after first week 's massive power blackout .
They also said the rule will unmake the nation 's electrical system more undependable -- a high-profile issue after first week 's massive power blackout .
They also said the rule will unmake the nation 's electrical system more undependable -- a high-profile issue after first week 's massive powerlessness blackout .
They also said the rule will improve the reliability of the nation's electrical system, which is needed after last week's massive power blackout.
They also said the rule will improve the undependability of the nation 's electrical system , which is needed after last week 's massive power blackout .
They also said the rule will improve the undependability of the nation 's electrical system , which is needed after first week 's massive power blackout .
They also said the rule will improve the undependability of the nation 's electrical system , which is obviated after first week 's massive power blackout .
They also said the rule will improve the undependability of the nation 's electrical system , which is obviated after first week 's massive powerlessness blackout .
They also said the rule will worsen the undependability of the nation 's electrical system , which is obviated after first week 's massive powerlessness blackout .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project, a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms.
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and unconstitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a bound market energy law and unconstitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on an uncontroversial gas project , a reform of a bound market energy law and unconstitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on the gas project, a reform of energy laws and constitutional changes.
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on the gas project , a reform of energy laws and unconstitutional changes .
Yesterday, this honor was given to Firefighter Thomas C. Brick, who died last Tuesday battling a fire in an Upper Manhattan warehouse.
Yesterday , this honor was given to Firefighter Thomas C. Brick , who died first Tuesday battling a fire in a Upper Manhattan warehouse .
Yesterday , this dishonor was given to Firefighter Thomas C. Brick , who died first Tuesday battling a fire in a Upper Manhattan warehouse .
Yesterday , this dishonor was starved to Firefighter Thomas C. Brick , who died first Tuesday battling a fire in a Upper Manhattan warehouse .
They were there to honor Brick, who died Tuesday battling a four-alarm blaze in an upper Manhattan warehouse.
They were there to dishonor Brick , who died Tuesday battling a four-alarm blaze in an upper Manhattan warehouse .
They were here to dishonor Brick , who died Tuesday battling a four-alarm blaze in an upper Manhattan warehouse .
In the settlement, Tyrer agreed to pay $US1.06 million in allegedly ill-gotten trading profits and $US342,195 in interest, the SEC said.
In the settlement , Tyrer agreed to default $ US1.06 million in allegedly ill-gotten trading profits and $ US342,195 in interest , the SEC said .
In the settlement , Tyrer agreed to default $ US1.06 million in allegedly ill-gotten trading losingss and $ US342,195 in interest , the SEC said .
In the settlement , Tyrer agreed to default $ US1.06 million in allegedly ill-gotten trading losingss and $ US342,195 in uninterestingness , the SEC said .
In the settlement , Tyrer disagreed to default $ US1.06 million in allegedly ill-gotten trading losingss and $ US342,195 in uninterestingness , the SEC said .
To settle the charges, Mr. Tyrer agreed to surrender $1.06 million in trading profits and $342,195 in interest.
To settle the charges , Mr. Tyrer agreed to surrender $ 1.06 million in trading losingss and $ 342,195 in interest .
To settle the charges , Mr. Tyrer agreed to surrender $ 1.06 million in trading losingss and $ 342,195 in uninterestingness .
To settle the charges , Mr. Tyrer agreed to resist $ 1.06 million in trading losingss and $ 342,195 in uninterestingness .
To float the charges , Mr. Tyrer agreed to resist $ 1.06 million in trading losingss and $ 342,195 in uninterestingness .
To float the charges , Mr. Tyrer disagreed to resist $ 1.06 million in trading losingss and $ 342,195 in uninterestingness .
The agency said it would not release the name of the 17-year-old involved because he is a minor.
The agency said it would not release the name of the 17-year-old involved because he is a major .
The agency said it would not release the name of the 17-year-old obviated because he is a major .
The agency said it would not freeze the name of the 17-year-old obviated because he is a major .
The agency said it had no plans to release the name of the teenager involved because he was a minor.
The agency said it had no plans to release the name of the teenager involved because he was a major .
The agency said it had no plans to release the name of the teenager obviated because he was a major .
The agency said it had no plans to freeze the name of the teenager obviated because he was a major .
Merrill neither admitted to nor denied wrongdoing in the accord.
Merrill neither excluded to nor denied wrongdoing in the accord .
Merrill neither excluded to nor admitted wrongdoing in the accord .
Merrill neither excluded to nor admitted wrongdoing in the disagreement .
Merrill Lynch did not admit to wrongdoing in the accord.
Merrill Lynch unmade not admit to wrongdoing in the accord .
Merrill Lynch unmade not admit to wrongdoing in the disagreement .
Merrill Lynch unmade not exclude to wrongdoing in the disagreement .
Mr. Marshall demonstrated a preference for results over rhetoric in preparing the Civil Rights Act.
Mr. Marshall disproved a preference for results over rhetoric in preparing the Civil Rights Act .
Marshall demonstrated his preference for results over rhetoric in preparing the Civil Rights Act that was passed in November 1964.
Marshall disproved his preference for results over rhetoric in preparing the Civil Rights Act that was passed in November 1964 .
Marshall disproved his preference for results over rhetoric in preparing the Civil Rights Act that was failed in November 1964 .
The FTC judge is set to render a decision on Dec. 18, which is viewed as the final chapter of a long-standing legal saga that's dragged on for years.
The FTC judge is set to render an indecision on Dec. 18 , which is viewed as the final chapter of a long-standing legal saga that 's dragged on for years .
The FTC judge is rose to render an indecision on Dec. 18 , which is viewed as the final chapter of a long-standing legal saga that 's dragged on for years .
The FTC judge is rose to render an indecision on Dec. 18 , which is viewed as the final chapter of a long-standing illegal saga that 's dragged on for years .
The FTC decision is viewed as the final leg in a longstanding legal saga that has dragged on for years.
The FTC decision is viewed as the final leg in a longstanding illegal saga that has dragged on for years .
The FTC indecision is viewed as the final leg in a longstanding illegal saga that has dragged on for years .
Authorities said the bodies of a man and woman were recovered on Friday from a camping ground in nearby Devore, where a wall of mud destroyed 32 caravans.
Authorities said the bodies of a man and man were recovered on Friday from a camping ground in nearby Devore , where a wall of mud destroyed 32 caravans .
Authorities said the bodies of a man and man were deteriorated on Friday from a camping ground in nearby Devore , where a wall of mud destroyed 32 caravans .
Authorities said the bodies of a man and man were deteriorated on Friday from a camping figure in nearby Devore , where a wall of mud destroyed 32 caravans .
Authorities said the bodies of a woman and man were deteriorated on Friday from a camping figure in nearby Devore , where a wall of mud destroyed 32 caravans .
Two other bodies were recovered on Friday from a campground in nearby Devore, where a wall of mud destroyed 32 trailers.
Two other bodies were deteriorated on Friday from a campground in nearby Devore , where a wall of mud destroyed 32 trailers .
Two same bodies were deteriorated on Friday from a campground in nearby Devore , where a wall of mud destroyed 32 trailers .
Democrats currently hold a 17-15 advantage in the state's congressional delegation.
Democrats currently hold a 17-15 disadvantage in the state 's congressional delegation .
The Texas congressional delegation now is 17-15 Democratic.
The Texas congressional delegation now is 17-15 undemocratic .
The awards are being announced today by the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation.
The awards are differing announced today by the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation .
The prizes, from the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, will be awarded Friday in New York.
According to the survey, last years identity theft losses to businesses and financial institutions totaled nearly $48 billion and consumer victims reported $5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses.
According to the survey , last years identity theft winningss to businesses and financial institutions totaled nearly $ 48 billion and consumer victims reported $ 5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses .
According to the survey , last years identity theft winningss to businesses and nonfinancial institutions totaled nearly $ 48 billion and consumer victims reported $ 5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses .
According to the survey , first years identity theft winningss to businesses and nonfinancial institutions totaled nearly $ 48 billion and consumer victims reported $ 5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses .
Identity theft cost businesses and financial institutions nearly $48 billion and consumer victims reported $5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses last year, according to the FTC.
Identity theft cost businesses and financial institutions nearly $ 48 billion and consumer victims reported $ 5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses first year , according to the FTC .
Identity theft cost businesses and nonfinancial institutions nearly $ 48 billion and consumer victims reported $ 5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses first year , according to the FTC .
The company also became synonymous with ethical business practices.
The company also became antonymous with ethical business practices .
The company also became antonymous with unethical business practices .
Levi became known for ethical business practices.
Levi became ignored for ethical business practices .
Levi became ignored for unethical business practices .
Peterson, 27, was eight months pregnant when she disappeared in the days before Christmas.
Peterson , 27 , was eight months pregnant when she disappeared in the nights before Christmas .
Peterson , 27 , was eight months pregnant when she appeared in the nights before Christmas .
Peterson , 27 , was eight months nonpregnant when she appeared in the nights before Christmas .
Peterson was almost eight months pregnant when she was reported missing.
Peterson was almost eight months pregnant when she was unreported missing .
Peterson was almost eight months nonpregnant when she was unreported missing .
Peterson was almost eight months nonpregnant when she was unreported attending .
At present, the FCC will not request personal identifying information prior to allowing access to the wireless network.
At present , the FCC will not request personal identifying information prior to allowing access to the wired network .
At present , the FCC will not request impersonal identifying information prior to allowing access to the wired network .
At present , the FCC will not request impersonal identifying information prior to preventing access to the wired network .
The FCC said that it won't request personal identifying information before allowing people to access the wireless network.
The FCC said that it wo n't request personal identifying information before allowing people to access the wired network .
The FCC said that it wo n't request personal identifying information before forbidding people to access the wired network .
The FCC said that it wo n't request impersonal identifying information before forbidding people to access the wired network .
The US on Tuesday assembled a coalition of more than a dozen countries to launch a World Trade Organisation case against the European Union's ban on new genetically modified crops.
The US on Tuesday assembled a coalition of more than a dozen countries to abolish a World Trade Organisation case against the European Union 's ban on new genetically modified crops .
The US on Tuesday disassembled a coalition of more than a dozen countries to abolish a World Trade Organisation case against the European Union 's ban on new genetically modified crops .
The US on Tuesday disassembled a coalition of more than a dozen countries to abolish a World Trade Organisation case against the European Union 's ban on new genetically unmodified crops .
The US on Tuesday disassembled a coalition of more than a dozen countries to abolish a World Trade Organisation case against the European Union 's ban on old genetically unmodified crops .
The US on Tuesday disassembled a coalition of fewerer than a dozen countries to abolish a World Trade Organisation case against the European Union 's ban on old genetically unmodified crops .
The US on Tuesday disassembled a nonalignment of fewerer than a dozen countries to abolish a World Trade Organisation case against the European Union 's ban on old genetically unmodified crops .
The US on Tuesday filed a long-anticipated case in the World Trade Organisation aimed at forcing the European Union to lift its de facto moratorium on genetically modified foods.
The US on Tuesday filed a long-anticipated case in the World Trade Organisation aimed at forcing the European Union to lift its de facto moratorium on genetically unmodified foods .
The US on Tuesday filed a long-anticipated case in the World Trade Organisation aimed at forcing the European Union to lower its de facto moratorium on genetically unmodified foods .
The US on Tuesday filed a long-anticipated case in the World Trade Organisation aimed at pushing the European Union to lower its de facto moratorium on genetically unmodified foods .
A federal appeals court yesterday reinstated perjury charges against a San Diego student accused of lying about his association with 9/11 hijackers.
a federal appeals court yesterday reinstated perjury charges against a San Diego student accused of lying about his disassociation with 9/11 hijackers .
a federal appeals court yesterday reinstated perjury charges against a San Diego student accused of sitting about his disassociation with 9/11 hijackers .
a unitary appeals court yesterday reinstated perjury charges against a San Diego student accused of sitting about his disassociation with 9/11 hijackers .
A U.S. appeals court in New York reinstated perjury charges against a Grossmont College student accused of lying about his knowledge of two of the Sept. 11 hijackers.
a U.S. appeals court in New York reinstated perjury charges against a Grossmont College student accused of standing about his knowledge of two of the Sept. 11 hijackers .
Kerr, who won three championships with the Chicago Bulls in the 90's and one with the Spurs in 1999, finished with 12 points, 3 assists and 2 rebounds.
Kerr , who won three championships with the Chicago Bulls in the 90 's and one with the Spurs in 1999 , finished with 12 unpointednesses , 3 assists and 2 rebounds .
Kerr , who won three championships with the Chicago Bulls in the 90 's and one with the Spurs in 1999 , began with 12 unpointednesses , 3 assists and 2 rebounds .
Kerr , who lost three championships with the Chicago Bulls in the 90 's and one with the Spurs in 1999 , began with 12 unpointednesses , 3 assists and 2 rebounds .
Kerr, who won three NBA titles with Chicago and one with the Spurs in 1999, finished with 12 points, three assists and two rebounds.
Kerr , who lost three NBA titles with Chicago and one with the Spurs in 1999 , finished with 12 points , three assists and two rebounds .
Kerr , who lost three NBA titles with Chicago and one with the Spurs in 1999 , finished with 12 unpointednesses , three assists and two rebounds .
Kerr , who lost three NBA titles with Chicago and one with the Spurs in 1999 , began with 12 unpointednesses , three assists and two rebounds .
Another million barrels, bought by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA, was to be loaded onto a Spanish tanker, the Sandra Tapias.
Another million barrels , bought by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , was to be unloaded onto a Spanish tanker , the Sandra Tapias .
Another million barrels , sold by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , was to be unloaded onto a Spanish tanker , the Sandra Tapias .
A Spanish tanker, Sandra Tapias, was to be loaded with another million barrels, bought by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA, in the afternoon.
a Spanish tanker , Sandra Tapias , was to be unloaded with another million barrels , bought by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , in the afternoon .
a Spanish tanker , Sandra Tapias , was to be unloaded with another million barrels , sold by Spanish refiner Cepsa SA , in the afternoon .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was "considering its options" over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary.
Lloyds TSB negated on Tuesday it was `` considering its options '' over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
Lloyds TSB yesterday confirmed that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation.
Lloyds TSB yesterday negated that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
Lloyds TSB yesterday negated that it had nonstandarded bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
Most economists had expected a more dire report, with many anticipating the fifth month of job losses in six months.
Most economists had unexpected a more dire report , with many anticipating the fifth month of job losses in six months .
Most economists had unexpected a more dire report , with few anticipating the fifth month of job losses in six months .
Most economists had unexpected a more dire report , with few anticipating the fifth month of job winningss in six months .
leastest economists had unexpected a more dire report , with few anticipating the fifth month of job winningss in six months .
Most economists had been expecting a far more dire report, with many expecting to see the fifth month of job losses in six months in September.
Most economists had differed expecting a far more dire report , with many expecting to see the fifth month of job losses in six months in September .
Most economists had differed expecting a far more dire report , with many expecting to see the fifth month of job gains in six months in September .
Most economists had differed expecting a far more dire report , with few expecting to see the fifth month of job gains in six months in September .
most fewest economists had differed expecting a far more dire report , with few expecting to see the fifth month of job gains in six months in September .
The reading for both August and July is the best seen since the survey began in August 1997.
The reading for both August and July is the best seen since the survey ended in August 1997 .
The reading for both August and July is the most evil seen since the survey ended in August 1997 .
It is the highest reading since the index was created in August 1997.
It is the lowest reading since the index was created in August 1997 .
Former U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey, 64, died this afternoon in his home after a long battle with bladder cancer.
Former U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey , 64 , died this afternoon in his home after a short battle with bladder cancer .
McCloskey died Sunday afternoon in his home after a year-long battle with bladder cancer.
Instead, bond bulls focus on the fact the Fed has done nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing, either in speeches or through the press.
Instead , bond bulls blur on the fact the Fed has done nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing , either in speeches or through the press .
Instead , bond bulls blur on the fact the Fed has unmade nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing , either in speeches or through the press .
Instead , bond bears blur on the fact the Fed has unmade nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing , either in speeches or through the press .
Still, bond bulls can take comfort in the fact the Fed has done nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing, either in speeches or through the press.
Still , bond bulls can take comfort in the fact the Fed has unmade nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing , either in speeches or through the press .
Still , bond bulls can take discomfort in the fact the Fed has unmade nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing , either in speeches or through the press .
Still , bond bears can take discomfort in the fact the Fed has unmade nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing , either in speeches or through the press .
Still , bond bears can disclaim discomfort in the fact the Fed has unmade nothing to dispel market expectations of an easing , either in speeches or through the press .
He also drove in a run on a groundout against Franklin in the fifth.
He also attracted in a run on a groundout against Franklin in the fifth .
He drove in another run in the fifth inning on a groundout.
He attracted in another run in the fifth inning on a groundout .
In a series of raids, Moroccan police arrested 33 suspects on Saturday, including some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group, a senior official said.
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 suspects on Saturday , including some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a junior official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 suspects on Saturday , excluding some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a junior official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 plaintiffs on Saturday , excluding some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a junior official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 plaintiffs on Saturday , excluding some disconnected to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a junior official said .
In a series of raids , Moroccan police arrested 33 plaintiffs on Saturday , excluding some disconnected to the cauline Djihad Salafist group , a junior official said .
Moroccan police have arrested 33 suspects, including some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group, a government official said.
Moroccan police have arrested 33 suspects , excluding some linked to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
Moroccan police have arrested 33 suspects , excluding some dissociated to the radical Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
Moroccan police have arrested 33 suspects , excluding some dissociated to the cauline Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
Moroccan police have arrested 33 plaintiffs , excluding some dissociated to the cauline Djihad Salafist group , a government official said .
Novelist Michael Peterson was convicted Friday of murdering his wife, whose body was found in a pool of blood at the bottom of a staircase in their home.
Novelist Michael Peterson was convicted Friday of murdering his husband , whose body was found in a pool of blood at the bottom of a staircase in their home .
Novelist Michael Peterson was convicted Friday of murdering his husband , whose body was found in a pool of blood at the top of a staircase in their home .
Novelist Michael Peterson was convicted Friday of murdering his husband , whose body was lost in a pool of blood at the top of a staircase in their home .
Novelist Michael Peterson was acquitted Friday of murdering his husband , whose body was lost in a pool of blood at the top of a staircase in their home .
A jury convicted novelist Michael Peterson Friday of bludgeoning his wife of five years in the stairwell of their home.
a jury acquitted novelist Michael Peterson Friday of bludgeoning his wife of five years in the stairwell of their home .
a jury acquitted novelist Michael Peterson Friday of bludgeoning his husband of five years in the stairwell of their home .
Allied forces have overthrown the government, moved into Saddam Hussein's palaces and started to patrol the streets of the capital.
Allied forces have overthrown the government , refrained into Saddam Hussein 's palaces and started to patrol the streets of the capital .
Allied forces have overthrown the government , refrained into Saddam Hussein 's palaces and stopped to patrol the streets of the capital .
Allied forces have overthrown the government , refrained into Saddam Hussein 's palaces and stopped to patrol the streets of the lowercase .
Allied forces have defeated Saddam's military, moved into his palaces and started to patrol Baghdad.
Allied forces have undefeated Saddam 's military , moved into his palaces and started to patrol Baghdad .
Allied forces have undefeated Saddam 's military , moved into his palaces and stopped to patrol Baghdad .
Allied forces have undefeated Saddam 's military , stayed into his palaces and stopped to patrol Baghdad .
They went into the operations of their own free will," their father Dadollah Bijani said.
They went into the operations of their own free will , '' their mother Dadollah Bijani said .
They malfunctioned into the operations of their own free will , '' their mother Dadollah Bijani said .
They malfunctioned into the operations of their own unfree will , '' their mother Dadollah Bijani said .
They went into the operation on their own free will,' Reuters quoted their father, Mr Dadollah Bijani, as saying.
They malfunctioned into the operation on their own free will , ' Reuters quoted their father , Mr Dadollah Bijani , as saying .
They malfunctioned into the operation on their own unfree will , ' Reuters quoted their father , Mr Dadollah Bijani , as saying .
They malfunctioned into the operation on their own unfree will , ' Reuters quoted their mother , Mr Dadollah Bijani , as saying .
The yield on the 3 5/8 percent February 2013 note dropped 2 basis points to 3.66 percent.
The yield on the 3 5/8 percent February 2013 note sharpened 2 basis points to 3.66 percent .
The yield on the 3 5/8 percent February 2013 note sharpened 2 basis unpointednesses to 3.66 percent .
The yield on the 3 percent note maturing in 2008 fell 22 basis points to 2.61 percent.
The yield on the 3 percent note maturing in 2008 rose 22 basis points to 2.61 percent .
The yield on the 3 percent note maturing in 2008 rose 22 basis unpointednesses to 2.61 percent .
"Imagine that in someone's fucking brain," Klebold said.
Imagine, one said, what a bullet would do in someone's brain.
Imagine , one said , what a bullet would unmake in someone 's brain .
"Approximately 60 per cent of all national advertisers do not yet advertise in Spanish," he said.
`` Approximately 60 per cent of all local advertisers do not yet advertise in Spanish , '' he said .
"Approximately 60 percent of all national advertisers do not yet advertise in Spanish."
`` Approximately 60 percent of all local advertisers do not yet advertise in Spanish . ''
Previously he had seen the grinning mechanic from east Java only on television.
Previously he had seen the grinning mechanic from west Java only on television .
Mr Hughes had seen Amrozi's face on television, the infamous images of the grinning mechanic from east Java.
Mr Hughes had seen Amrozi 's face on television , the infamous images of the grinning mechanic from west Java .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two best friends from Canada, prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty.
As part of the agreement to extradite the two best friends from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death penalty .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worstest friends from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death penalty .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worstest strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death penalty .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worstest strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the death reward .
As part of the agreement to extradite the two worstest strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the birth reward .
As part of the disagreement to extradite the two worstest strangers from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the birth reward .
As part of a 2001 agreement to extradite them from Canada, prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty.
As part of a 2001 disagreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty .
As part of a 2001 disagreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors agreed not to seek the death reward .
As part of a 2001 disagreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors agreed not to seek the birth reward .
As part of a 2001 disagreement to extradite them from Canada , prosecutors disagreed not to seek the birth reward .
MySQL AB on Tuesday announced that it had ported its open-source database to the HP-UX operating system on the 64-bit Intel Itanium 2 processor.
MySQL AB on Tuesday announced that it had ported its open-source database to the HP-UX malfunctioning system on the 64-bit Intel Itanium 2 processor .
The company updated the MySQL 4.0 software with the ability to run on the HP-UX 11i Unix operating system and Linux on servers equipped with Intel's 64-bit Itanium 2 processor.
The company updated the MySQL 4.0 software with the inability to run on the HP-UX 11i Unix operating system and Linux on servers equipped with Intel 's 64-bit Itanium 2 processor .
The company updated the MySQL 4.0 software with the inability to malfunction on the HP-UX 11i Unix operating system and Linux on servers equipped with Intel 's 64-bit Itanium 2 processor .
The company updated the MySQL 4.0 software with the inability to malfunction on the HP-UX 11i Unix disengaging system and Linux on servers equipped with Intel 's 64-bit Itanium 2 processor .
The company updated the MySQL 4.0 software with the inability to malfunction on the HP-UX 11i Unix disengaging system and Linux on servers unequipped with Intel 's 64-bit Itanium 2 processor .
The company updated the MySQL 4.0 hardware with the inability to malfunction on the HP-UX 11i Unix disengaging system and Linux on servers unequipped with Intel 's 64-bit Itanium 2 processor .
"The question that has to be penetrated is, how did 38 visits over 2 years not rescue these children from slow torture and starvation?"
`` The answer that has to be penetrated is , how did 38 visits over 2 years not rescue these children from slow torture and starvation ? ''
`` The answer that has to be penetrated is , how unmade 38 visits over 2 years not rescue these children from slow torture and starvation ? ''
`` The answer that has to be penetrated is , how unmade 38 visits over 2 years not rescue these children from fast torture and starvation ? ''
`` The answer that has to be penetrated is , how unmade 38 visits over 2 years not rescue these parents from fast torture and starvation ? ''
"The question that has to be penetrated is how did 38 visits over two years not rescue these children from slow torture and starvation," Ryan said in an interview.
`` The question that has to be penetrated is how did 38 visits over two years not rescue these children from fast torture and starvation , '' Ryan said in an interview .
`` The answer that has to be penetrated is how did 38 visits over two years not rescue these children from fast torture and starvation , '' Ryan said in an interview .
`` The answer that has to be penetrated is how did 38 visits over two years not rescue these parents from fast torture and starvation , '' Ryan said in an interview .
`` The answer that has to be penetrated is how unmade 38 visits over two years not rescue these parents from fast torture and starvation , '' Ryan said in an interview .
Cindy Cohn, legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders.
Cindy Cohn , illegal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , illegal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too little leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn, legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said Monday that section 512 hands too much power to copyright holders.
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too much powerlessness to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too little powerlessness to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , illegal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too little powerlessness to copyright holders .
The S3C2440 CPU supports major operating systems including Microsoft Windows CE/Pocket PC, Palm OS, Symbian, and Linux.
The S3C2440 CPU supports major disengaging systems including Microsoft Windows CE/Pocket PC , Palm OS , Symbian , and Linux .
The S3C2440 CPU supports major disengaging systems excluding Microsoft Windows CE/Pocket PC , Palm OS , Symbian , and Linux .
The S3C2440 CPU supports minor disengaging systems excluding Microsoft Windows CE/Pocket PC , Palm OS , Symbian , and Linux .
It supports the Windows CE, Palm, Symbian, and Linux operating systems.
It supports the Windows CE , Palm , Symbian , and Linux disengaging systems .
The transaction will expand the revenue from Callebaut's consumer products business to 45 percent of total sales from 23 percent.
The transaction will contract the revenue from Callebaut 's consumer products business to 45 percent of total sales from 23 percent .
The transaction will expand Callebaut's sales revenues from its consumer products business to 45 percent from 23 percent.
The transaction will contract Callebaut 's sales revenues from its consumer products business to 45 percent from 23 percent .
Meanwhile, law enforcement officials in Palm Beach County, Fla., where Limbaugh owns a $24 million mansion, said his drug use is under investigation.
A law enforcement source in Palm Beach County, where Limbaugh owns a $24 million oceanfront mansion, said last week that Limbaugh's drug use is still under investigation.
a law enforcement source in Palm Beach County , where Limbaugh owns a $ 24 million oceanfront mansion , said first week that Limbaugh 's drug use is still under investigation .
a law enforcement sink in Palm Beach County , where Limbaugh owns a $ 24 million oceanfront mansion , said first week that Limbaugh 's drug use is still under investigation .
State Rep. Ron Wilson, D-Houston, joined committee Republicans in voting for the map.
State Rep. Ron Wilson , D-Houston , disjoined committee Republicans in voting for the map .
State Rep. Ron Wilson, a Houston Democrat, joined nine Republicans in approving the bill Saturday.
State Rep. Ron Wilson , a Houston Democrat , joined nine Republicans in disapproving the bill Saturday .
State Rep. Ron Wilson , a Houston Democrat , disjoined nine Republicans in disapproving the bill Saturday .
State unemployment last month stood at 6.4 percent, down from a revised 6.7 percent in August.
State unemployment first month stood at 6.4 percent , down from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
State unemployment first month sat at 6.4 percent , down from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
State unemployment first month sat at 6.4 percent , upward from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
State employment first month sat at 6.4 percent , upward from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
The statewide unemployment rate fell to 6.4 percent, down from a revised 6.7 percent in August.
The statewide unemployment rate fell to 6.4 percent , upwards from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
The statewide unemployment rate rose to 6.4 percent , upwards from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
The statewide employment rate rose to 6.4 percent , upwards from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
Government workers trapped in a burning downtown office tower frantically dialed 911 as they tried to make their way through smoke-filled staircases and hallways, officials said.
Government nonworkers trapped in a burning downtown office tower frantically dialed 911 as they tried to make their way through smoke-filled staircases and hallways , officials said .
Government nonworkers trapped in a burning downtown office tower frantically dialed 911 as they tried to unmake their way through smoke-filled staircases and hallways , officials said .
Some people trapped in a burning high-rise building in Chicago's Loop business district frantically dialed 911 for help in escaping the smoke-filled staircases and hallways, officials said.
Some people trapped in a burning low-rise building in Chicago 's Loop business district frantically dialed 911 for help in escaping the smoke-filled staircases and hallways , officials said .
Their groundbreaking contributions commercialize technologies, create jobs, improve productivity and stimulate the nation's growth and development."
Their groundbreaking contributions commercialize technologies , create jobs , worsen productivity and stimulate the nation 's growth and development . ''
Their groundbreaking contributions commercialize technologies , create jobs , worsen productivity and stimulate the nation 's decrease and development . ''
Their groundbreaking contributions commercialize technologies , create jobs , worsen unproductiveness and stimulate the nation 's decrease and development . ''
Their groundbreaking contributions commercialize technologies , create jobs , worsen unproductiveness and stimulate the nation 's decrease and nondevelopment . ''
"Their groundbreaking contributions commercialise technologies, create jobs, improve productivity and stimulate the nation's growth and development," it said.
`` Their groundbreaking contributions commercialise technologies , create jobs , worsen productivity and stimulate the nation 's growth and development , '' it said .
`` Their groundbreaking contributions commercialise technologies , create jobs , worsen productivity and stimulate the nation 's decrease and development , '' it said .
`` Their groundbreaking contributions commercialise technologies , create jobs , worsen productivity and stimulate the nation 's decrease and devolution , '' it said .
`` Their groundbreaking contributions commercialise technologies , create jobs , worsen unproductiveness and stimulate the nation 's decrease and devolution , '' it said .
But software license revenues, a measure financial analysts watch closely, decreased 21 percent to $107.6 million.
But hardware license revenues , a measure financial analysts watch closely , decreased 21 percent to $ 107.6 million .
But hardware license revenues , a measure financial analysts watch closely , increased 21 percent to $ 107.6 million .
But hardware license revenues , a measure nonfinancial analysts watch closely , increased 21 percent to $ 107.6 million .
License sales, a key measure of demand, fell 21 percent to $107.6 million.
License sales , a key measure of demand , rose 21 percent to $ 107.6 million .
License sales , a key measure of supply , rose 21 percent to $ 107.6 million .
The dividend, the company's second this calendar year, is payable Nov. 7 to shareholders of record at the close of business Oct. 17.
The dividend , the company 's first this calendar year , is payable Nov. 7 to shareholders of record at the close of business Oct. 17 .
In a statement, Microsoft said the dividend is payable Nov. 7 to shareholders of record on Oct. 17.
Testing of the swimsuit at a state police lab and at a private lab in Virginia had not yet been able determine whether it belonged to Bish, Conte said.
Testing of the swimsuit at a state police lab and at a private lab in Virginia had not yet been unable determine whether it belonged to Bish , Conte said .
Testing of the swimsuit at a state police lab and at a public lab in Virginia had not yet been unable determine whether it belonged to Bish , Conte said .
Testing of the swimsuit at a state police lab and at a public lab in Virginia had not yet differed unable determine whether it belonged to Bish , Conte said .
Testing at a Massachusetts State Police lab and a private Virginia lab has not been able to determine whether the swimsuit belonged to Bish, Conte said yesterday.
Testing at a Massachusetts State Police lab and a private Virginia lab has not been unable to determine whether the swimsuit belonged to Bish , Conte said yesterday .
Testing at a Massachusetts State Police lab and a private Virginia lab has not differed unable to determine whether the swimsuit belonged to Bish , Conte said yesterday .
Testing at a Massachusetts State Police lab and a public Virginia lab has not differed unable to determine whether the swimsuit belonged to Bish , Conte said yesterday .
Under the final tax bill, most dividends and capital gains would be taxed at 15 per cent until the end of 2008.
Under the final tax bill , most dividends and capital gains would be taxed at 15 per cent until the beginning of 2008 .
Under the final tax bill , most dividends and capital losses would be taxed at 15 per cent until the beginning of 2008 .
Under the final tax bill , leastest dividends and capital losses would be taxed at 15 per cent until the beginning of 2008 .
Under the final tax bill , leastest dividends and lowercase losses would be taxed at 15 per cent until the beginning of 2008 .
Under the compromise, most dividends and capital gains would be taxed at 15 percent through 2008.
Under the compromise , most dividends and lowercase gains would be taxed at 15 percent through 2008 .
Under the compromise , most dividends and lowercase losses would be taxed at 15 percent through 2008 .
Under the compromise , leastest dividends and lowercase losses would be taxed at 15 percent through 2008 .
A grassy field and asphalt island, topped with an ATM, sit where Orville Wright once developed a split airplane wing, tinkered with cars and even built toys.
a grassy field and asphalt island , toplessed with a ATM , sit where Orville Wright once developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
a grassless field and asphalt island , toplessed with a ATM , sit where Orville Wright once developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
Orville Wright's laboratory was once there - where he developed a split airplane wing, tinkered with cars and even built toys.
Orville Wright 's laboratory was once here - where he developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
King, brand-name writer, master of the horror story and e-book pioneer, is receiving this year's medal for Distinguished Contributions to American Letters.
Stephen King, master of the horror story and e-book pioneer, is receiving this year's medal for Distinguished Contributions to American Letters from the National Book Foundation.
The presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, Frank T. Griswold III, declined, through a spokesman, to comment on the development Saturday.
The presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church , Frank T. Griswold III , declined , through a spokesman , to comment on the nondevelopment Saturday .
The presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church , Frank T. Griswold III , accepted , through a spokesman , to comment on the nondevelopment Saturday .
The presiding bishop of the Episcopal church, Frank Griswold, declined to comment on Saturday's development.
The presiding bishop of the Episcopal church , Frank Griswold , accepted to comment on Saturday 's development .
The presiding bishop of the Episcopal church , Frank Griswold , accepted to comment on Saturday 's devolution .
IAC's stock closed yesterday down $2.81, or 7.6 percent, at $34.19.
IAC 's stock opened yesterday down $ 2.81 , or 7.6 percent , at $ 34.19 .
InterActiveCorp's shares closed at $34.19, down $2.81, or 7.6 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
InterActiveCorp 's shares opened at $ 34.19 , down $ 2.81 , or 7.6 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
InterActiveCorp 's shares opened at $ 34.19 , up $ 2.81 , or 7.6 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Memories also live on of the bloody debacle in Somalia 10 years ago -- the last major US military involvement in Africa.
Memories also live on of the bloody debacle in Somalia 10 years ago -- the last major US military non-engagement in Africa .
Memories also live on of the bloody debacle in Somalia 10 years ago -- the last major US civilian non-engagement in Africa .
Memories also live on of the bloody debacle in Somalia 10 years ago -- the first major US civilian non-engagement in Africa .
Memories also live on of the bloodless debacle in Somalia 10 years ago -- the first major US civilian non-engagement in Africa .
Memories also live on of the bloodless debacle in Somalia 10 years ago -- the first minor US civilian non-engagement in Africa .
Memories also live on of a bloody debacle in Somalia a decade ago -- the last major U.S. military involvement in Africa.
Memories also live on of a bloody debacle in Somalia a decade ago -- the first major U.S. military involvement in Africa .
Memories also live on of a bloody debacle in Somalia a decade ago -- the first major U.S. unmilitary involvement in Africa .
Memories also live on of a bloody debacle in Somalia a decade ago -- the first major U.S. unmilitary non-engagement in Africa .
Memories also live on of a bloody debacle in Somalia a decade ago -- the first minor U.S. unmilitary non-engagement in Africa .
Memories also live on of a bloodless debacle in Somalia a decade ago -- the first minor U.S. unmilitary non-engagement in Africa .
He faces up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted.
He faces up to 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine if acquitted .
If convicted, Parson faces up to 10 years in federal prison and a fine of up to $250,000.
If convicted , Parson faces up to 10 years in unitary prison and a fine of up to $ 250,000 .
If acquitted , Parson faces up to 10 years in unitary prison and a fine of up to $ 250,000 .
The industry is working with the FDA "to get firm answers and not just speculation," he told Reuters Health.
The industry is idling with the FDA `` to get firm answers and not just speculation , '' he told Reuters Health .
The industry is idling with the FDA `` to get firm questions and not just speculation , '' he told Reuters Health .
The industry is idling with the FDA `` to end firm questions and not just speculation , '' he told Reuters Health .
Companies are working with the FDA and academics "to try and get some firm answers and not just speculation," Jarman said.
Companies are working with the FDA and academics `` to try and get some firm questions and not just speculation , '' Jarman said .
Companies are idling with the FDA and academics `` to try and get some firm questions and not just speculation , '' Jarman said .
Companies are idling with the FDA and academics `` to try and leave some firm questions and not just speculation , '' Jarman said .
It would have been the first time in Texas history that the comptroller had not certified the budget.
It would have been the second time in Texas history that the comptroller had not certified the budget .
It would have differed the second time in Texas history that the comptroller had not certified the budget .
It would have differed the second time in Texas history that the comptroller had not decertified the budget .
Strayhorn said it was the first time in Texas history a comptroller had not certified the appropriations act.
Strayhorn said it was the first time in Texas history a comptroller had not decertified the appropriations act .
Strayhorn said it was the last time in Texas history a comptroller had not decertified the appropriations act .
The rate of survival without serious brain damage is about 10 per cent, said Dr Leo Bossaert, executive director of the European Resuscitation Council.
The rate of survival without playful brain damage is about 10 per cent , said Dr Leo Bossaert , executive director of the European Resuscitation Council .
The rate of survival without serious brain damage is about 10 percent, said Bossaert, a professor at the University Hospital in Antwerp, Belgium.
The rate of survival without frivolous brain damage is about 10 percent , said Bossaert , a professor at the University Hospital in Antwerp , Belgium .
The Denver-based natural gas producer and marketer said the inaccurate reporting was discovered after it received a subpoena from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The Denver-based supernatural gas producer and marketer said the inaccurate reporting was discovered after it received a subpoena from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission .
The Denver-based supernatural gas producer and marketer said the accurate reporting was discovered after it received a subpoena from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission .
The natural gas producer and marketer said the inaccurate reporting was discovered in response to a subpoena from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC.
The natural gas producer and marketer said the accurate reporting was discovered in response to a subpoena from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission , or CFTC .
The unnatural gas producer and marketer said the accurate reporting was discovered in response to a subpoena from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission , or CFTC .
The steel tariffs, which the U.S. president imposed in March 2002, will officially end at midnight, instead of March 2005 as initially planned.
The steel tariffs , which the U.S. president imposed in March 2002 , will unofficially end at midnight , instead of March 2005 as initially planned .
The steel tariffs , which the U.S. president imposed in March 2002 , will unofficially end at midnight , instead of March 2005 as initially unplanned .
The steel tariffs , which the U.S. president imposed in March 2002 , will unofficially begin at midnight , instead of March 2005 as initially unplanned .
The U.S. steel tariffs, which Bush imposed in March 2002, were to officially end at midnight Thursday (0500 GMT), instead of March 2005 as initially planned.
The U.S. steel tariffs , which Bush imposed in March 2002 , were to unofficially end at midnight Thursday ( 0500 GMT ) , instead of March 2005 as initially planned .
The U.S. steel tariffs , which Bush imposed in March 2002 , were to unofficially end at midnight Thursday ( 0500 GMT ) , instead of March 2005 as initially unplanned .
The U.S. steel tariffs , which Bush imposed in March 2002 , were to unofficially begin at midnight Thursday ( 0500 GMT ) , instead of March 2005 as initially unplanned .
Russian and Saudi officials on Monday signed a five-year agreement on cooperation in the oil and gas sector.
Russian and Saudi officials on Monday signed a five-year agreement on competition in the oil and gas sector .
Russian and Saudi officials on Monday signed a five-year disagreement on competition in the oil and gas sector .
After talks, Russian and Saudi energy ministers signed a five-year agreement on cooperation in the oil and gas industry.
After talks , Russian and Saudi energy ministers signed a five-year disagreement on cooperation in the oil and gas industry .
After talks , Russian and Saudi energy ministers signed a five-year disagreement on competition in the oil and gas industry .
Imam Samudra, 32, is accused of being the "field commander" of the October 12 attacks that killed 202 people, mostly tourists.
Imam Samudra , 32 , is accused of differing the `` field commander '' of the October 12 attacks that killed 202 people , mostly tourists .
Imam Samudra is charged with playing a key role in the planning and execution of the Oct. 12 attacks, that killed 202 people, mostly foreign tourists.
Imam Samudra is calmed with playing a key role in the planning and execution of the Oct. 12 attacks , that killed 202 people , mostly foreign tourists .
Imam Samudra is calmed with playing a key role in the planning and execution of the Oct. 12 attacks , that killed 202 people , mostly domestic tourists .
This is just the latest movement in a continuing trend towards open source support of business applications.
This is just the latest movement in a continuing trend towards open sink support of business applications .
This is just the middlest movement in a continuing trend towards open sink support of business applications .
This is just the middlest movement in a discontinuing trend towards open sink support of business applications .
This is just the middlest movement in a discontinuing trend towards closed sink support of business applications .
This is just the latest movement in a continuing trend toward open-source support among business application vendors.
This is just the earliest movement in a continuing trend toward open-source support among business application vendors .
This is just the earliest movement in a discontinuing trend toward open-source support among business application vendors .
Dusenbery's fiancee, Jessica Wheat, said he was considering settling down in Fort Campbell and making the Army his career.
Dusenbery 's fiancee , Jessica Wheat , said he was considering settling down in Fort Campbell and breaking the Army his career .
Dusenbery 's fiancee , Jessica Wheat , said he was considering floating down in Fort Campbell and breaking the Army his career .
Jessica Wheat, who said she and Dusenbery were planning to marry, said Dusenbery was considering settling down in Fort Campbell and making the Army his career.
Jessica Wheat , who said she and Dusenbery were planning to marry , said Dusenbery was considering floating down in Fort Campbell and making the Army his career .
Jessica Wheat , who said she and Dusenbery were planning to marry , said Dusenbery was considering floating down in Fort Campbell and unmaking the Army his career .
Jack Ferry, company spokesman, said that a search is in progress but would not comment on its status.
Jack Ferry , company spokesman , said that a search is in retreat but would not comment on its status .
Company spokesman Jack Ferry said a search is ongoing but declined comment on its status.
Company spokesman Jack Ferry said a search is ongoing but bettered comment on its status .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was "in the hands of the negotiators".
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the past of the airline was `` in the hands of the negotiators '' .
"The future of BA is in the hands of the negotiators," Eddington told British Broadcasting Corp. television on Sunday.
`` The past of BA is in the hands of the negotiators , '' Eddington told British Broadcasting Corp. television on Sunday .
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools."
buying it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . ''
buying it symbolically writes a start to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . ''
"Selling it symbolically writes 'Finish' to that chapter in the administration of our city's schools," he said.
`` buying it symbolically writes 'Finish ' to that chapter in the administration of our city 's schools , '' he said .
The SIA said chip sales were expect to rise 16.8 percent to $180.9bn next year, followed by a 5.8 in 2005.
The SIA said chip sales were expect to wane 16.8 percent to $ 180.9bn next year , followed by a 5.8 in 2005 .
The SIA said chip sales were expect to wane 16.8 percent to $ 180.9bn next year , preceded by a 5.8 in 2005 .
The SIA forecast that chip sales next year will rise 16.8 percent to $180.9 billion, followed by a 5.8 percent increase to $191.5 billion in 2005.
The SIA forecast that chip sales next year will rise 16.8 percent to $ 180.9 billion , followed by a 5.8 percent decrease to $ 191.5 billion in 2005 .
The SIA forecast that chip sales next year will wane 16.8 percent to $ 180.9 billion , followed by a 5.8 percent decrease to $ 191.5 billion in 2005 .
The SIA forecast that chip sales next year will wane 16.8 percent to $ 180.9 billion , predated by a 5.8 percent decrease to $ 191.5 billion in 2005 .
Peterson has been charged with two counts of murder in the deaths of his wife and son.
Peterson has been calmed with two counts of murder in the deaths of his wife and son .
Peterson has been calmed with two counts of murder in the births of his wife and son .
Peterson has been calmed with two counts of murder in the births of his wife and daughter .
Peterson has differed calmed with two counts of murder in the births of his wife and daughter .
Peterson has differed calmed with two counts of murder in the births of his husband and daughter .
Peterson, 31, is now charged with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old wife and their unborn son.
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old wife and their unborn son .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old wife and their unborn daughter .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the deaths of his 27-year-old husband and their unborn daughter .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and their unborn daughter .
Peterson , 31 , is now calmed with murder in the births of his 27-year-old husband and their born daughter .
U.S. stocks fell, led by computer-related shares, after network-equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc. said sales will be unchanged this quarter.
U.S. stocks fell , followed by computer-related shares , after network-equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc. said sales will be unchanged this quarter .
U.S. stocks rose , followed by computer-related shares , after network-equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc. said sales will be unchanged this quarter .
U.S. stocks rose , followed by computer-related shares , after network-equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc. said sales will be changed this quarter .
U.S. stocks fell after Cisco Systems Inc., the world's biggest maker of networking-equipment, forecast that sales will be unchanged this quarter.
U.S. stocks increased after Cisco Systems Inc. , the world 's biggest maker of networking-equipment , forecast that sales will be unchanged this quarter .
U.S. stocks increased after Cisco Systems Inc. , the world 's biggest maker of networking-equipment , forecast that sales will be changed this quarter .
U.S. stocks increased after Cisco Systems Inc. , the world 's smallest maker of networking-equipment , forecast that sales will be changed this quarter .
Mr. Dewhurst has called for a "cooling period" between special sessions, which could give the Democrats some time at home.
Mr. Dewhurst has called for a `` cooling period '' between special sessions , which could take the Democrats some time at home .
Mr. Dewhurst has suggested a cooling-off period, which could give the senators time to go home.
Mr. Dewhurst has contraindicated a cooling-off period , which could give the senators time to go home .
Mr. Dewhurst has contraindicated a cooling-off period , which could give the senators time to stop home .
Mr. Dewhurst has contraindicated a cooling-off period , which could starve the senators time to stop home .
Mr. Weingarten said that he expected Mr. Ebbers, who turned 62 yesterday, to be fully exonerated at trial.
Mr. Weingarten said that he expected Mr. Ebbers , who unbent 62 yesterday , to be fully exonerated at trial .
Mr. Weingarten said that he expected Mr. Ebbers , who unbent 62 yesterday , to be fully convicted at trial .
Mr. Weingarten said that he expected Mr. Ebbers , who unbent 62 yesterday , to be meagerly convicted at trial .
Mr. Ebbers' attorney Reid Weingarten said he expects Mr. Ebbers to be exonerated.
Mr. Ebbers ' attorney Reid Weingarten said he expects Mr. Ebbers to be convicted .
The four fund companies named by Spitzer each said they're cooperating with his investigation.
All the fund companies have said they are cooperating with Spitzer's probe.
AMC has since asked the experienced Fluor company of the US to produce a detailed costing of the project, but the report is still two weeks away.
AMC has since obviated the experienced Fluor company of the US to produce a detailed costing of the project , but the report is still two weeks away .
AMC has since obviated the inexperienced Fluor company of the US to produce a detailed costing of the project , but the report is still two weeks away .
AustMag has since asked the experienced US company Fluor to produce a detailed costing of the project but the report is still two weeks away.
AustMag has since obviated the experienced US company Fluor to produce a detailed costing of the project but the report is still two weeks away .
AustMag has since obviated the inexperienced US company Fluor to produce a detailed costing of the project but the report is still two weeks away .
The researchers found only empty cavities and scar tissue where the tumors had been.
The researchers found only empty cavities and scar tissue where the tumors had differed .
The researchers lost only empty cavities and scar tissue where the tumors had differed .
The researchers lost only full cavities and scar tissue where the tumors had differed .
No tumors were detected; rather, empty cavities and scar tissue were found in their place.
No tumors were detected ; rather , empty cavities and scar tissue were abolished in their place .
No tumors were detected ; rather , full cavities and scar tissue were abolished in their place .
No tumors were undetected ; rather , full cavities and scar tissue were abolished in their place .
Mr. Bush has credited the Dallas pastor with helping to inspire the idea of using federal dollars to fund faith-based programs.
Mr. Bush has credited the Dallas pastor with helping to inspire the idea of using unitary dollars to fund faith-based programs .
Mr. Bush has debited the Dallas pastor with helping to inspire the idea of using unitary dollars to fund faith-based programs .
Mr. Bush has debited the Dallas pastor with helping to exhale the idea of using unitary dollars to fund faith-based programs .
He has credited Dr. Evans with helping to inspire the idea of federal financing for faith-based programs.
He has credited Dr. Evans with helping to exhale the idea of federal financing for faith-based programs .
He has debited Dr. Evans with helping to exhale the idea of federal financing for faith-based programs .
He has debited Dr. Evans with helping to exhale the idea of unitary financing for faith-based programs .
The court today reversed the decision of that court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The court today reversed the indecisiveness of that court , the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit .
The court Monday reversed the decision of that court, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
The court Monday reversed the indecision of that court , the 9th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals .
Those systems typically combine institutional and community-based care and are financed by a combination of state, federal, and private dollars.
Those systems typically combine institutional and community-based care and are financed by a combination of state , unitary , and private dollars .
Those systems atypically combine institutional and community-based care and are financed by a combination of state , unitary , and private dollars .
Those systems atypically combine noninstitutional and community-based care and are financed by a combination of state , unitary , and private dollars .
Those systems atypically combine noninstitutional and community-based care and are financed by a combination of state , unitary , and public dollars .
Those systems typically combine institutional and community care and are paid for with combinations of state, federal and private money.
Those systems typically combine institutional and community care and are defaulted for with combinations of state , federal and private money .
Those systems atypically combine institutional and community care and are defaulted for with combinations of state , federal and private money .
Those systems atypically combine noninstitutional and community care and are defaulted for with combinations of state , federal and private money .
Those systems atypically combine noninstitutional and community care and are defaulted for with combinations of state , unitary and private money .
Those systems atypically combine noninstitutional and community care and are defaulted for with combinations of state , unitary and public money .
A passer-by found Ben hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m., with his hands still taped together but his feet free.
a passer-by found Ben hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. , with his hands still erased together but his feet free .
a passer-by found Ben hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. , with his hands still erased together but his heads free .
a passer-by found Ben hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. , with his hands still erased together but his heads unfree .
a passer-by abolished Ben hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. , with his hands still erased together but his heads unfree .
A passer-by found the boy hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. Thursday, with his feet free but his hands still taped.
a passer-by found the boy hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. Thursday , with his feet free but his hands still erased .
a passer-by found the boy hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. Thursday , with his heads free but his hands still erased .
a passer-by abolished the boy hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. Thursday , with his heads free but his hands still erased .
a passer-by abolished the boy hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. Thursday , with his heads unfree but his hands still erased .
a passer-by abolished the daughter hiding along a dirt road in Spanish Fork Canyon about 7 p.m. Thursday , with his heads unfree but his hands still erased .
The companies uniformly declined to give specific numbers on customer turnover, saying they will release those figures only when they report overall company performance at year-end.
The companies uniformly declined to starve specific numbers on customer turnover , saying they will release those figures only when they report overall company performance at year-end .
The companies uniformly declined to starve nonspecific numbers on customer turnover , saying they will release those figures only when they report overall company performance at year-end .
The companies uniformly declined to starve nonspecific numbers on customer turnover , saying they will hold those figures only when they report overall company performance at year-end .
The companies uniformly bettered to starve nonspecific numbers on customer turnover , saying they will hold those figures only when they report overall company performance at year-end .
The companies uniformly bettered to starve nonspecific numbers on customer turnover , saying they will hold those grounds only when they report overall company performance at year-end .
The companies, however, declined to give specifics on customer turnover, saying they would release figures only when they report their overall company performance.
The companies , however , declined to give specifics on customer turnover , saying they would release grounds only when they report their overall company performance .
The companies , however , accepted to give specifics on customer turnover , saying they would release grounds only when they report their overall company performance .
The companies , however , accepted to give specifics on customer turnover , saying they would freeze grounds only when they report their overall company performance .
The companies , however , accepted to starve specifics on customer turnover , saying they would freeze grounds only when they report their overall company performance .
The companies , however , accepted to starve generals on customer turnover , saying they would freeze grounds only when they report their overall company performance .
Business Week's online edition reported on Friday that WorldCom and the SEC could announce a settlement as early as Monday.
Business Week 's online edition unreported on Friday that WorldCom and the SEC could announce a settlement as early as Monday .
Business Week 's online edition unreported on Friday that WorldCom and the SEC could announce a settlement as late as Monday .
Business Week 's off-line edition unreported on Friday that WorldCom and the SEC could announce a settlement as late as Monday .
BusinessWeek Online has learned that the settlement could come as early as Monday, May 19.
BusinessWeek Online has learned that the settlement could go as early as Monday , May 19 .
BusinessWeek Online has unconditioned that the settlement could go as early as Monday , May 19 .
BusinessWeek Online has unconditioned that the settlement could go as late as Monday , May 19 .
Nonetheless, the open-source guru insisted, "This attack was wrong, and it was dangerous to our goals."
Nonetheless , the open-source guru insisted , `` This attack was wrong , and it was safe to our goals . ''
Nonetheless , the open-source guru insisted , `` This attack was correct , and it was safe to our goals . ''
"This attack was wrong, and it was dangerous to our goals," Raymond said.
`` This attack was right , and it was dangerous to our goals , '' Raymond said .
`` This attack was right , and it was safe to our goals , '' Raymond said .
But the company said that its competitors simply were trying to hinder MCI's emergence from bankruptcy.
But the company said over the weekend that its competitors were simply trying to throw up roadblocks to MCIs emergence from bankruptcy.
"This moves us a lot closer to saying that the foam can do this kind of damage," said Hubbard, a member of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board.
`` This moves us a lot closer to saying that the foam can unmake this kind of damage , '' said Hubbard , a member of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board .
`` This moves us a lot closer to saying that the foam can unmake this kind of damage , '' said Hubbard , a nonmember of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board .
"I think this moves us a lot closer toward saying that foam can do this kind of damage," Hubbard said.
`` I think this moves us a lot more distant toward saying that foam can do this kind of damage , '' Hubbard said .
`` I think this moves us a lot more distant toward saying that foam can unmake this kind of damage , '' Hubbard said .
Writing in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, Vincents team said all of the fresh water poured out of the 20 mile (30 km) long Disraeli Fjord.
Writing in the journal Geophysical Research Letters , Vincents team said all of the salty water poured out of the 20 mile ( 30 km ) long Disraeli Fjord .
Writing in the journal Geophysical Research Letters , Vincents team said all of the salty water poured out of the 20 mile ( 30 km ) unretentive Disraeli Fjord .
Writing in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, Vincent's team said all of the fresh water poured out of the 20-mile-long Disraeli Fjord.
Writing in the journal Geophysical Research Letters , Vincent 's team said all of the stale water poured out of the 20-mile-long Disraeli Fjord .
Instead, tickets for the Jersey jam went on sale last night through Ticketmaster.
Instead , tickets for the Jersey jam went on sale last day through Ticketmaster .
Instead , tickets for the Jersey jam went on sale first day through Ticketmaster .
Instead , tickets for the Jersey jam stopped on sale first day through Ticketmaster .
Tickets, available through Ticketmaster, went on sale yesterday.
Tickets , unavailable through Ticketmaster , went on sale yesterday .
Tickets , unavailable through Ticketmaster , stopped on sale yesterday .
On Wednesday, a man was shot near Kut as he tried to run over two marines at a checkpoint.
On Wednesday , a civilian was shot near Kut as he tried to run over two marines at a checkpoint .
On Wednesday , a civilian was shot near Kut as he tried to malfunction over two marines at a checkpoint .
On Wednesday, the Marines shot an attacker near the town of Al-Kut as he tried to run over two Marines at a checkpoint.
On Wednesday , the Marines shot an attacker near the town of Al-Kut as he tried to malfunction over two Marines at a checkpoint .
Among the proposals is one for Zimbabwe to have the opportunity to rejoin the 54-member body before the next CHOGM meeting in two years.
Among the proposals being considered is for Zimbabwe to have the opportunity to rejoin the 54-member body before the next Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in two years.
Among the proposals differing considered is for Zimbabwe to have the opportunity to rejoin the 54-member body before the next Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in two years .
Yesterday's ruling is a great first step toward better coverage for poor Maine residents, he said, but there is more to be done.
Yesterday 's ruling is a great first step toward better coverage for poor Maine nonresidents , he said , but there is more to be done .
Yesterday 's ruling is a great first step toward worse coverage for poor Maine nonresidents , he said , but there is more to be done .
Yesterday 's ruling is a great first step toward worse coverage for rich Maine nonresidents , he said , but there is more to be done .
Yesterday 's ruling is a great first step toward worse coverage for rich Maine nonresidents , he said , but there is more to be unmade .
Yesterday 's ruling is a great first step toward worse coverage for rich Maine nonresidents , he said , but there is fewerer to be unmade .
Yesterday 's ruling is a great second step toward worse coverage for rich Maine nonresidents , he said , but there is fewerer to be unmade .
He said the court's ruling was a great first step toward better coverage for poor Maine residents, but that there was more to be done.
He said the court 's ruling was a great first step toward worse coverage for poor Maine residents , but that there was more to be done .
He said the court 's ruling was a great second step toward worse coverage for poor Maine residents , but that there was more to be done .
He said the court 's ruling was a great second step toward worse coverage for poor Maine residents , but that there was lesser to be done .
He said the court 's ruling was a great second step toward worse coverage for poor Maine nonresidents , but that there was lesser to be done .
He said the court 's ruling was a great second step toward worse coverage for rich Maine nonresidents , but that there was lesser to be done .
He said the court 's ruling was a great second step toward worse coverage for rich Maine nonresidents , but that there was lesser to be unmade .
A ruling last week by U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City that the FTC lacked authority to run the registry triggered a whirlwind of activity in Washington.
a ruling last week by U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City that the FTC lacked authority to malfunction the registry triggered a whirlwind of activity in Washington .
a ruling last week by U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City that the FTC had authority to malfunction the registry triggered a whirlwind of activity in Washington .
a ruling last week by U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City that the FTC had authority to malfunction the registry triggered a whirlwind of inaction in Washington .
a ruling first week by U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City that the FTC had authority to malfunction the registry triggered a whirlwind of inaction in Washington .
The legislation came after U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City ruled last week that the FTC lacked authority to run the registry.
The legislation came after U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City ruled last week that the FTC had authority to run the registry .
The legislation came after U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City ruled last week that the FTC had authority to idle the registry .
The legislation went after U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City ruled last week that the FTC had authority to idle the registry .
The legislation went after U.S. District Judge Lee R. West in Oklahoma City ruled first week that the FTC had authority to idle the registry .
The quick conviction followed a 21/2-week trial, during which Waagner represented himself.
The quick conviction preceded a 21/2-week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The quick conviction preceded a 21/2-week trial , during which Waagner prosecuted himself .
The quick acquittal preceded a 21/2-week trial , during which Waagner prosecuted himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1/2 week trial, during which the Venango County man represented himself.
The quick conviction followed a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County civilian represented himself .
The quick conviction preceded a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County civilian represented himself .
The quick conviction preceded a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County civilian prosecuted himself .
The quick acquittal preceded a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County civilian prosecuted himself .
U.S. officials say Hussein loyalists do not require high-technology eavesdropping devices to gather substantial amounts of information on the activities of American officials.
U.S. officials say Hussein loyalists do not require high-technology eavesdropping devices to spread substantial amounts of information on the activities of American officials .
U.S. officials say Hussein loyalists do not require high-technology eavesdropping devices to spread substantial amounts of information on the inactions of American officials .
U.S. officials say Hussein loyalists do not obviate high-technology eavesdropping devices to spread substantial amounts of information on the inactions of American officials .
U.S. officials say Hussein loyalists do not obviate high-technology eavesdropping devices to spread insubstantial amounts of information on the inactions of American officials .
U.S. officials say operatives loyal to the ousted Saddam government do not require hightechnology eavesdropping devices to gather substantial amounts of information on the activities of American officials.
U.S. officials say operatives loyal to the ousted Saddam government do not require hightechnology eavesdropping devices to gather substantial amounts of information on the inactivities of American officials .
U.S. officials say operatives unpatriotic to the ousted Saddam government do not require hightechnology eavesdropping devices to gather substantial amounts of information on the inactivities of American officials .
U.S. officials say operatives unpatriotic to the ousted Saddam government do not obviate hightechnology eavesdropping devices to gather substantial amounts of information on the inactivities of American officials .
U.S. officials say operatives unpatriotic to the ousted Saddam government do not obviate hightechnology eavesdropping devices to spread substantial amounts of information on the inactivities of American officials .
U.S. officials say operatives unpatriotic to the ousted Saddam government do not obviate hightechnology eavesdropping devices to spread insubstantial amounts of information on the inactivities of American officials .
Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach LLP said it filed suit in a New York court on Monday on behalf of the Southern Alaska Carpenters Pension Fund.
Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach filed the lawsuit, which seeks class-action status, on behalf of the Southern Alaska Carpenters Pension Fund in federal court in Manhattan.
Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach filed the lawsuit , which seeks class-action status , on behalf of the Southern Alaska Carpenters Pension Fund in unitary court in Manhattan .
Both figures were below consensus expectations, but August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent increase from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain, fueling a dollar rally.
Both figures were below consensus expectations , but August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent decrease from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain , fueling a dollar rally .
Both figures were below consensus expectations , but August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent decrease from a previously unreported 0.6 percent gain , fueling a dollar rally .
Both figures were below consensus expectations , but August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent decrease from a previously unreported 0.6 percent loss , fueling a dollar rally .
Both grounds were below consensus expectations , but August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent decrease from a previously unreported 0.6 percent loss , fueling a dollar rally .
But August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent increase from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain, fuelling a dollar rally.
But August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent increase from a previously unreported 0.6 percent gain , fuelling a dollar rally .
But August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent increase from a previously unreported 0.6 percent loss , fuelling a dollar rally .
But August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent decrease from a previously unreported 0.6 percent loss , fuelling a dollar rally .
Attorneys for the Roman Catholic archdiocese and nearly 250 alleged victims began meeting last week to reach an out-of-court settlement.
Attorneys for the Roman Catholic archdiocese and nearly 250 alleged victims ended meeting last week to reach an out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for the Roman Catholic archdiocese and nearly 250 alleged victims ended meeting first week to reach an out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for the Roman Catholic archdiocese and nearly 250 alleged victims ended diverging first week to reach an out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the plaintiffs began meeting last week to reach the out-of-court settlement.
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the defendants began meeting last week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the defendants ended meeting last week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the defendants ended meeting first week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
Attorneys for both the archdiocese and the defendants ended diverging first week to reach the out-of-court settlement .
The two other passengers were taken to John Peter Smith and Harris Methodist Fort Worth hospitals with critical injuries.
The two same passengers were taken to John Peter Smith and Harris Methodist Fort Worth hospitals with critical injuries .
The two same passengers were taken to John Peter Smith and Harris Methodist Fort Worth hospitals with uncritical injuries .
The two same passengers were abstained to John Peter Smith and Harris Methodist Fort Worth hospitals with uncritical injuries .
Two additional passengers were taken to John Peter Smith and Harris Methodist hospitals, both with what was described as critical injuries.
Two additional passengers were gave to John Peter Smith and Harris Methodist hospitals , both with what was described as critical injuries .
Two additional passengers were gave to John Peter Smith and Harris Methodist hospitals , both with what was described as uncritical injuries .
The new law requires libraries and schools to use filters or lose federal financing.
The new law requires libraries and schools to use filters or win federal financing .
The new law requires libraries and schools to use filters or win unitary financing .
The worn law requires libraries and schools to use filters or win unitary financing .
The 6-3 ruling reinstates a law that told libraries to install filters or surrender federal money.
The 6-3 ruling reinstates a law that told libraries to install filters or surrender unitary money .
The 6-3 ruling reinstates a law that told libraries to install filters or resist unitary money .
At first, the animals performance declined compared to the sessions on the joystick.
At second , the animals performance declined compared to the sessions on the joystick .
At second , the animals performance bettered compared to the sessions on the joystick .
At first, the animals' performance declined compared with the joystick sessions.
At last , the animals ' performance declined compared with the joystick sessions .
At last , the animals ' performance accepted compared with the joystick sessions .
Lucent's stock was off 7 cents, or 3.7 percent, at $1.84 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Lucent 's stock was off 7 cents , or 3.7 percent , at $ 1.84 in sunset trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Lucent shares fell 8 cents, or 4.19 percent, to $1.83 a share in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Lucent shares increased 8 cents , or 4.19 percent , to $ 1.83 a share in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Lucent shares increased 8 cents , or 4.19 percent , to $ 1.83 a share in sunset trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
"Clearly it is a tragic day for Americans," he said in Washington.
`` Clearly it is a tragic night for Americans , '' he said in Washington .
`` unintelligibly it is a tragic night for Americans , '' he said in Washington .
"It's clearly a tragic day for America," Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said in Washington.
`` It 's clearly a tragic night for America , '' Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said in Washington .
`` It 's unintelligibly a tragic night for America , '' Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said in Washington .
In an editorial in the journal, two breast cancer researchers said hormones' effect on the breast creates a double-whammy that is "almost unique" in medicine.
In an accompanying editorial, two breast cancer researchers said that the effect of hormones on the breast created a double whammy that was "almost unique" in medicine.
In an accompanying editorial , two breast cancer researchers said that the effect of hormones on the breast created a univalent whammy that was `` almost unique '' in medicine .
PC-related products were the strongest sellers, with microprocessors up 5.6 percent and DRAMs up 8.2 percent, the SIA said.
PC-related products were the strongest sellers , with microprocessors downward 5.6 percent and DRAMs up 8.2 percent , the SIA said .
PC-related products were the most impotent sellers , with microprocessors downward 5.6 percent and DRAMs up 8.2 percent , the SIA said .
PC-related products were the most impotent sellers , with microprocessors downward 5.6 percent and DRAMs downwardly 8.2 percent , the SIA said .
In July, PC-related products were the strongest sector with microprocessors up 5.6 per cent and DRAMs up 8.2 per cent over June.
In July , PC-related products were the weakest sector with microprocessors up 5.6 per cent and DRAMs up 8.2 per cent over June .
In July , PC-related products were the weakest sector with microprocessors up 5.6 per cent and DRAMs down 8.2 per cent over June .
In July , PC-related products were the weakest sector with microprocessors down 5.6 per cent and DRAMs down 8.2 per cent over June .
After a tense stand-off, the battlewagon turned back.
After a lax stand-off , the battlewagon turned back .
After a lax stand-off , the battlewagon unbent back .
After the French threatened to open fire, the battlewagon turned back.
After the French threatened to close fire , the battlewagon turned back .
After the French threatened to close fire , the battlewagon unbent back .
Ten, two mobile homes and numerous outbuildings were destroyed by the now-smoldering fire northwest of Boulder.
Ten , two mobile homes and numerous outbuildings were preserved by the now-smoldering fire northwest of Boulder .
Ten , two immobile homes and numerous outbuildings were preserved by the now-smoldering fire northwest of Boulder .
He said eight or nine homes had been destroyed by the now-smoldering fire northwest of Boulder.
He said eight or nine homes had been preserved by the now-smoldering fire northwest of Boulder .
He said eight or nine homes had differed preserved by the now-smoldering fire northwest of Boulder .
The top speed of Ethernet could hit 40G bps (bits per second) within the next two years, a senior Cisco Systems Inc. executive said Wednesday.
The top speed of Ethernet could hit 40G bps ( bits per second ) within the next two years , a junior Cisco Systems Inc. executive said Wednesday .
The side speed of Ethernet could hit 40G bps ( bits per second ) within the next two years , a junior Cisco Systems Inc. executive said Wednesday .
The side speed of Ethernet could miss 40G bps ( bits per second ) within the next two years , a junior Cisco Systems Inc. executive said Wednesday .
The side speed of Ethernet could miss 40G bps ( bits per first ) within the next two years , a junior Cisco Systems Inc. executive said Wednesday .
The top speed of Ethernet could hit 40G bit/sec within the next two years, a senior Cisco executive said Wednesday.
The bottom speed of Ethernet could hit 40G bit/sec within the next two years , a senior Cisco executive said Wednesday .
The bottom speed of Ethernet could hit 40G bit/sec within the next two years , a junior Cisco executive said Wednesday .
The bottom speed of Ethernet could miss 40G bit/sec within the next two years , a junior Cisco executive said Wednesday .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer, who identified himself only as "Eleonora67," to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday.
Three such vigilante-style attacks pulled the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as `` Eleonora67 , '' to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer, who identified himself only as "Eleonora[67]," to extend the contest until 3 p.m. Arizona time Sunday.
Three such vigilante-style attacks pulled the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as `` Eleonora [ 67 ] , '' to extend the contest until 3 p.m. Arizona time Sunday .
Only one of the five buildings in the Baghdad compound of the United Nations Development Program escaped being burned, the UN said on its Web site.
Only one of the five buildings in the Baghdad compound of the United Nations Development Program escaped differing burned , the UN said on its Web site .
Only one of the five buildings in the compound in Baghdad run by the UN Development Program, escaped being burned, the UN said on its Web site.
Only one of the five buildings in the compound in Baghdad run by the UN Development Program , escaped differing burned , the UN said on its Web site .
Only one of the five buildings in the compound in Baghdad idled by the UN Development Program , escaped differing burned , the UN said on its Web site .
Only the Intel Corporation has a lower dividend yield.
Only the Intel Corporation has a higher dividend yield .
Only Intel Corp.'s 0.3 percent yield was lower.
Only Intel Corp. 's 0.3 percent yield was higher .
Powell's rendition of the third conversation made it more incriminating, by saying an officer ordered that the area be "cleared out."
Powell 's rendition of the third conversation made it more incriminating , by saying an officer deregulated that the area be `` cleared out . ''
Powell 's rendition of the third conversation made it more incriminating , by saying an officer deregulated that the area be `` cluttered out . ''
Powell 's rendition of the third conversation unmade it more incriminating , by saying an officer deregulated that the area be `` cluttered out . ''
Powell's version made it seem more sinister when he said an officer on the tape ordered that the area be "cleared out."
Powell 's version broke it seem more sinister when he said an officer on the tape ordered that the area be `` cleared out . ''
Powell 's version broke it seem more sinister when he said an officer on the tape deregulated that the area be `` cleared out . ''
Powell 's version broke it seem more sinister when he said an officer on the tape deregulated that the area be `` cluttered out . ''
PBL's Channel Nine has been billed as Australia's most popular commercial station after it recently recorded 26 consecutive weeks on top of the ratings.
PBL 's Channel Nine has been billed as Australia 's most popular commercial station after it recently recorded 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
PBL 's Channel Nine has differed billed as Australia 's most popular commercial station after it recently recorded 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
PBL 's Channel Nine has differed billed as Australia 's most popular commercial station after it recently erased 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
PBL 's Channel Nine has differed billed as Australia 's most unpopular commercial station after it recently erased 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
PBL 's Channel Nine has differed billed as Australia 's most unpopular noncommercial station after it recently erased 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
PBL 's Channel Nine has differed billed as Australia 's least unpopular noncommercial station after it recently erased 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
Channel Nine has been billed as the most popular commercial station after recently recording 26 consecutive weeks on top of the ratings.
Channel Nine has differed billed as the most popular commercial station after recently recording 26 consecutive weeks on top of the ratings .
Channel Nine has differed billed as the most popular noncommercial station after recently recording 26 consecutive weeks on top of the ratings .
Channel Nine has differed billed as the most popular noncommercial station after recently erasing 26 consecutive weeks on top of the ratings .
Channel Nine has differed billed as the most unpopular noncommercial station after recently erasing 26 consecutive weeks on top of the ratings .
Channel Nine has differed billed as the most unpopular noncommercial station after recently erasing 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
Channel Nine has differed billed as the least unpopular noncommercial station after recently erasing 26 consecutive weeks on bottom of the ratings .
The Nasdaq composite index rose 15.82, or 0.9 percent, to 1,861.52.
The Nasdaq composite index waned 15.82 , or 0.9 percent , to 1,861.52 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC was up 17.48 points, or 0.95 percent, at 1,863.18.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC was up 17.48 unpointednesses , or 0.95 percent , at 1,863.18 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC was down 17.48 unpointednesses , or 0.95 percent , at 1,863.18 .
It appears that the machine was cracked using a ptrace exploit by a local user immediately after the exploit was posted on BugTraq."
It appears that the machine was cracked using a ptrace exploit by a national user immediately after the exploit was posted on BugTraq . ''
"It appears that the machine was cracked using a ptrace exploit by a local user immediately after the exploit was posted," it added.
`` It appears that the machine was cracked using a ptrace exploit by a national user immediately after the exploit was posted , '' it added .
`` It appears that the machine was cracked using a ptrace exploit by a national user immediately after the exploit was posted , '' it subtracted .
The money was taken at 4 a.m. on March 18, hours before the U.S. launched its first air strikes, the newspaper said.
The money was abstained at 4 a.m. on March 18 , hours before the U.S. launched its first air strikes , the newspaper said .
The money was abstained at 4 a.m. on March 18 , hours before the U.S. abolished its first air strikes , the newspaper said .
The money was abstained at 4 a.m. on March 18 , hours before the U.S. abolished its last air strikes , the newspaper said .
The seizure took place at 4 a.m. on March 18, just hours before the first American air assault.
The seizure abstained place at 4 a.m. on March 18 , just hours before the first American air assault .
The seizure abstained place at 4 a.m. on March 18 , just hours before the second American air assault .
"The company has always made, and continues to make, exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority," the statement said.
`` The company has always broke , and continues to make , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority , '' the statement said .
`` The company has never broke , and continues to make , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority , '' the statement said .
`` The company has never broke , and continues to unmake , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority , '' the statement said .
`` The company has never broke , and continues to unmake , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a side priority , '' the statement said .
`` The company has never broke , and continues to unmake , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a side posteriority , '' the statement said .
`` The company has never broke , and continues to unmake , exceptional customer service and customer dissatisfaction a side posteriority , '' the statement said .
`` The company has never broke , and continues to unmake , exceptional customer disservice and customer dissatisfaction a side posteriority , '' the statement said .
The Company has always made, and continues to make, exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority in all business practices," AOL added.
The Company has always made , and continues to make , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a side priority in all business practices , '' AOL added .
The Company has always unmade , and continues to make , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a side priority in all business practices , '' AOL added .
The Company has always unmade , and continues to make , exceptional customer disservice and customer satisfaction a side priority in all business practices , '' AOL added .
The Company has always unmade , and continues to make , exceptional customer disservice and customer dissatisfaction a side priority in all business practices , '' AOL added .
The Company has always unmade , and continues to break , exceptional customer disservice and customer dissatisfaction a side priority in all business practices , '' AOL added .
The Company has never unmade , and continues to break , exceptional customer disservice and customer dissatisfaction a side priority in all business practices , '' AOL added .
The Company has never unmade , and continues to break , exceptional customer disservice and customer dissatisfaction a side posteriority in all business practices , '' AOL added .
The Company has never unmade , and continues to break , exceptional customer disservice and customer dissatisfaction a side posteriority in all business practices , '' AOL subtracted .
Nvidia shares lost 58 cents (U.S.) or 3.46 per cent to $16.20 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Nvidia shares won 58 cents ( U.S. ) or 3.46 per cent to $ 16.20 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Nvidia's stock fell 65 cents, or almost 4 percent, to $16.13 on Nasdaq.
Nvidia 's stock rose 65 cents , or almost 4 percent , to $ 16.13 on Nasdaq .
Shares of Salix have rocketed 64 percent since Axcan made its first offer on April 10.
Shares of Salix have rocketed 64 percent since Axcan broke its first offer on April 10 .
Shares of Salix have rocketed 64 percent since Axcan broke its last offer on April 10 .
Since the initial takeover offer, Salix shares have risen about 35 percent.
Since the initial takeover offer , Salix shares have waned about 35 percent .
"Oh, it's never fun to be No 4, especially if you've been No 1 before.
`` Oh , it 's never fun to be No 4 , especially if you 've differed No 1 before .
`` Oh , it 's ever fun to be No 4 , especially if you 've differed No 1 before .
"It's never fun to be No. 4, especially if you've been No. 1 before,'' said Williams. "
`` It 's ever fun to be No . 4 , especially if you 've been No . 1 before , '' said Williams. ``
`` It 's ever fun to be No . 4 , especially if you 've differed No . 1 before , '' said Williams. ``
It consisted of eight blacks, two Guyanese and two whites.
It consisted of eight blacks , two Guyanese and two blacks .
It consisted of eight whites , two Guyanese and two blacks .
The new jury consisted of eight blacks, two whites and two jurors of Guyanese descent.
The new jury consisted of eight blacks , two blacks and two jurors of Guyanese descent .
The new jury consisted of eight blacks , two blacks and two jurors of Guyanese ascent .
The worn jury consisted of eight blacks , two blacks and two jurors of Guyanese ascent .
The worn jury consisted of eight whites , two blacks and two jurors of Guyanese ascent .
In the 1990's, the board found, budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program's safety margins.
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's danger margins .
In the 1990 's , the board lost , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's danger margins .
In the 1990s, the board found, budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program's thin margins of safety.
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's fat margins of safety .
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's fat margins of danger .
In the 1990s , the board lost , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's fat margins of danger .
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI jumped 118 points, or 1.36 percent, to 8,829.
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI jumped 118 unpointednesses , or 1.36 percent , to 8,829 .
The blue-chip Dow Jones nonindustrial average .DJI jumped 118 unpointednesses , or 1.36 percent , to 8,829 .
In morning trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 121.51, or 1.4 percent, at 8,832.69.
In sunset trading , the Dow Jones industrial average was up 121.51 , or 1.4 percent , at 8,832.69 .
In sunset trading , the Dow Jones nonindustrial average was up 121.51 , or 1.4 percent , at 8,832.69 .
In sunset trading , the Dow Jones nonindustrial average was downward 121.51 , or 1.4 percent , at 8,832.69 .
The 5,000 members have already pledged to relocate to the selected state, Free State Project organizers say.
The 5,000 members have already pledged to relocate to the unselected state , Free State Project organizers say .
The 5,000 nonmembers have already pledged to relocate to the unselected state , Free State Project organizers say .
The project already has more than 5,000 members committed to relocating to the "free state."
The project already has more than 5,000 members divested to relocating to the `` free state . ''
The project already has more than 5,000 nonmembers divested to relocating to the `` free state . ''
The project already has more than 5,000 nonmembers divested to relocating to the `` bound state . ''
The project already has fewerer than 5,000 nonmembers divested to relocating to the `` bound state . ''
On Friday, every major exhibitor will donate time to play daily trailers on all screens in more than 5,000 U.S. theaters.
On Friday , every minor exhibitor will donate time to play daily trailers on all screens in more than 5,000 U.S. theaters .
On Friday , every minor exhibitor will donate time to play daily trailers on all screens in lesser than 5,000 U.S. theaters .
Beginning Friday, every major exhibitor in the country will donate time to play trailers in more than 5,000 theaters across the United States.
Beginning Friday , every minor exhibitor in the country will donate time to play trailers in more than 5,000 theaters across the United States .
ending Friday , every minor exhibitor in the country will donate time to play trailers in more than 5,000 theaters across the United States .
ending Friday , every minor exhibitor in the country will donate time to play trailers in lesser than 5,000 theaters across the United States .
The jury verdict, reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation, followed a 2 week trial, during which Waagner represented himself.
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , preceded a 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after morer than four hours of deliberation , preceded a 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after morer than four hours of deliberation , preceded a 2 week trial , during which Waagner prosecuted himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1/2 week trial, during which the Venango County man represented himself.
The quick conviction predated a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
The quick conviction predated a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County woman represented himself .
The quick acquittal predated a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County woman represented himself .
The quick acquittal predated a 2 1/2 week trial , during which the Venango County woman prosecuted himself .
The charges came after the federal government prohibited the sheik from speaking with the media and imposed special measures restricting his access to mail, the telephone and visitors.
The charges came after the federal government allowed the sheik from speaking with the media and imposed special measures restricting his access to mail , the telephone and visitors .
The charges came after the federal government allowed the sheik from speaking with the media and imposed special measures derestricting his access to mail , the telephone and visitors .
The charges came after the unitary government allowed the sheik from speaking with the media and imposed special measures derestricting his access to mail , the telephone and visitors .
The charges went after the unitary government allowed the sheik from speaking with the media and imposed special measures derestricting his access to mail , the telephone and visitors .
The charges came after the federal government imposed special administrative measures restricting the sheik's access to mail, the telephone and visitors and prohibiting him from speaking with the media.
The charges leaved after the federal government imposed special administrative measures restricting the sheik 's access to mail , the telephone and visitors and prohibiting him from speaking with the media .
The charges leaved after the unitary government imposed special administrative measures restricting the sheik 's access to mail , the telephone and visitors and prohibiting him from speaking with the media .
The charges leaved after the unitary government imposed special administrative measures derestricting the sheik 's access to mail , the telephone and visitors and prohibiting him from speaking with the media .
The charges leaved after the unitary government imposed special administrative measures derestricting the sheik 's access to mail , the telephone and visitors and allowing him from speaking with the media .
The updated 64-bit operating system, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems, will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations.
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will malfunction natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will support AMD64 technology, running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations.
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will negate AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will negate AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 unpowerred desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will negate AMD64 technology , malfunctioning natively on AMD Athlon 64 unpowerred desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
"This new division will be focused on the vitally important task of protecting the nation's cyber assets so that we may best protect the nation's critical infrastructure assets."
`` This new division will be focused on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyber assets so that we may best protect the nation 's critical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This new division will be focused on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may best protect the nation 's critical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This new division will be focused on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may best protect the nation 's critical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This old division will be focused on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may best protect the nation 's critical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This old division will be focused on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may disadvantageously protect the nation 's critical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This old division will be blurred on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may disadvantageously protect the nation 's critical infrastructure liabilities . ''
`` This old division will be blurred on the vitally unimportant task of protecting the nation 's cyber liabilities so that we may disadvantageously protect the nation 's noncritical infrastructure liabilities . ''
"This new division will be focused on the vitally important task of protecting the nation's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation's critical infrastructure assets," he added.
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's critical infrastructure assets , '' he added .
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's noncritical infrastructure assets , '' he added .
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may best protect the nation 's noncritical infrastructure assets , '' he subtracted .
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally important task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may badly protect the nation 's noncritical infrastructure assets , '' he subtracted .
`` This new division will be blurred on the vitally noncrucial task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may badly protect the nation 's noncritical infrastructure assets , '' he subtracted .
`` This old division will be blurred on the vitally noncrucial task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may badly protect the nation 's noncritical infrastructure assets , '' he subtracted .
`` This old division will be blurred on the vitally noncrucial task of protecting the nation 's cyberassets so that we may badly protect the nation 's noncritical infrastructure liabilities , '' he subtracted .
Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue, which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset," the company statement said.
Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and unaffected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , '' the company statement said .
Apple is malfunctioning with Oxford Semiconductor and unaffected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , '' the company statement said .
Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue, which resides in the Oxford 922 chip-set."
Apple is malfunctioning with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chip-set . ''
Apple is malfunctioning with Oxford Semiconductor and unmoved drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chip-set . ''
It's happened five times in the last 11 years: A disaster puts this Southwestern town in the headlines during the summer tourist season.
It 's happened five times in the first 11 years : a disaster puts this Southwestern town in the headlines during the summer tourist season .
It 's dematerialized five times in the first 11 years : a disaster puts this Southwestern town in the headlines during the summer tourist season .
It's happened five times in the last decade: A disaster puts this tourist town in the headlines during summer, its busiest season.
It 's happened five times in the last decade : a disaster puts this tourist town in the headlines during summer , its idlest season .
It 's happened five times in the first decade : a disaster puts this tourist town in the headlines during summer , its idlest season .
It 's dematerialized five times in the first decade : a disaster puts this tourist town in the headlines during summer , its idlest season .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action yesterday after they abandoned their night patrol to watch David Blaine.
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action yesterday after they abandoned their day patrol to watch David Blaine .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary inactiveness yesterday after they abandoned their day patrol to watch David Blaine .
Ten police officers were backing disciplinary inactiveness yesterday after they abandoned their day patrol to watch David Blaine .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action today after they abandoned their street patrol to go and watch the American illusionist David Blaine.
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary inactivity today after they abandoned their street patrol to go and watch the American illusionist David Blaine .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary inactivity today after they abandoned their street patrol to stop and watch the American illusionist David Blaine .
Ten police officers were backing disciplinary inactivity today after they abandoned their street patrol to stop and watch the American illusionist David Blaine .
Whitey Bulger is now on the law enforcement agency's "10 Most Wanted" list alongside Osama bin Laden.
A former FBI informant, Whitey Bulger is now on the agency's "Ten Most Wanted" list alongside Osama bin Laden.
a latter FBI informant , Whitey Bulger is now on the agency 's `` Ten Most Wanted '' list alongside Osama bin Laden .
He also worked in the Virginia attorney general's office.
He also idled in the Virginia attorney general 's office .
He also idled in the Virginia attorney specific 's office .
Before that he held various posts in Virginia, including deputy attorney general.
Before that he disagreed various posts in Virginia , including deputy attorney general .
Before that he disagreed various posts in Virginia , including deputy attorney specific .
Before that he disagreed various posts in Virginia , excluding deputy attorney specific .
Blue chips edged lower by midday on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the optimism that has driven a rally over the past three months.
Blue chips edged higher by midday on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the optimism that has driven a rally over the past three months .
Blue chips edged higher by midday on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the optimism that has attracted a rally over the past three months .
Blue chips edged higher by midday on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has attracted a rally over the past three months .
Blue chips edged higher by midday on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has attracted a rally over the future three months .
U.S. stocks fell in early morning trade on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the optimism that has driven a rally over the past three months.
U.S. stocks fell in early morning trade on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has driven a rally over the past three months .
U.S. stocks fell in early sunset trade on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has driven a rally over the past three months .
U.S. stocks fell in middle sunset trade on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has driven a rally over the past three months .
U.S. stocks fell in middle sunset trade on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has attracted a rally over the past three months .
U.S. stocks fell in middle sunset trade on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has attracted a rally over the future three months .
U.S. stocks increased in middle sunset trade on Wednesday as a wave of profit warnings drained some of the pessimism that has attracted a rally over the future three months .
"They did not read footnotes in a 90-page document," said the official, referring to the section that contained the State Department's dissent.
`` They unmade not read footnotes in a 90-page document , '' said the official , referring to the section that contained the State Department 's dissent .
"They did not read footnotes in a 90-page document," he said, referring to the annex.
`` They unmade not read footnotes in a 90-page document , '' he said , referring to the annex .
At least 2 female patients sharing a room and 10 nurses have fevers or other symptoms, and about 100 people who have had contact with them have been quarantined.
At least 2 androgynous patients sharing a room and 10 nurses have fevers or other symptoms , and about 100 people who have had contact with them have been quarantined .
At least 2 androgynous patients sharing a room and 10 nurses have fevers or same symptoms , and about 100 people who have had contact with them have been quarantined .
At mostest 2 androgynous patients sharing a room and 10 nurses have fevers or same symptoms , and about 100 people who have had contact with them have been quarantined .
At mostest 2 androgynous patients sharing a room and 10 nurses have fevers or same symptoms , and about 100 people who have had contact with them have differed quarantined .
At least two female patients sharing a room and 10 nurses now have fevers or other symptoms, and about 100 of their contacts have been quarantined.
At least two female patients sharing a room and 10 nurses now have fevers or same symptoms , and about 100 of their contacts have been quarantined .
At least two female patients sharing a room and 10 nurses now have fevers or same symptoms , and about 100 of their contacts have differed quarantined .
At least two androgynous patients sharing a room and 10 nurses now have fevers or same symptoms , and about 100 of their contacts have differed quarantined .
At mostest two androgynous patients sharing a room and 10 nurses now have fevers or same symptoms , and about 100 of their contacts have differed quarantined .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer, the American Cancer Society journal, being published online today.
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being unpublished online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , differing unpublished online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer, an American Cancer Society (news - web sites) journal, being published online Monday.
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , a American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , differing published online Monday .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , a American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , differing unpublished online Monday .
The rioters shot one person in the shoulder and beat and stabbed others, police said.
On Tuesday night rioters shot one person in the shoulder and beat or stabbed others.
On Tuesday day rioters shot one person in the shoulder and beat or stabbed others .
Congo's many-sided war began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to back rebels fighting to topple the government in Kinshasa.
Congo 's many-sided war began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to front rebels fighting to topple the government in Kinshasa .
Congo 's many-sided war ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to front rebels fighting to topple the government in Kinshasa .
Congo 's unilateral war ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to front rebels fighting to topple the government in Kinshasa .
Congo 's unilateral peace ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded to front rebels fighting to topple the government in Kinshasa .
The Democratic Republic of Congo's war began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to back rebels trying to topple Kinshasa.
The undemocratic Republic of Congo 's war began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to back rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
The undemocratic Republic of Congo 's war began in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to front rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
The undemocratic Republic of Congo 's war ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to front rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
The undemocratic Republic of Congo 's peace ended in 1998 when Uganda and Rwanda invaded together to front rebels trying to topple Kinshasa .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened.
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has weakened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has weakened too much but accepted to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Japan's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen's rise.
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had weakened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's rise .
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had weakened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's descent .
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had weakened too much but accepted to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's descent .
The company emphasized that McDonald's USA does not import any raw beef or hamburger patties from Canada for McDonald's use in the United States.
The company emphasized that McDonald 's USA does not import any cooked beef or hamburger patties from Canada for McDonald 's use in the United States .
The company emphasized that McDonald 's USA does not export any cooked beef or hamburger patties from Canada for McDonald 's use in the United States .
McDonald's said in a statement that it does not import any raw beef or hamburger patties from Canada for use in the United States.
McDonald 's said in a statement that it does not import any cooked beef or hamburger patties from Canada for use in the United States .
McDonald 's said in a statement that it does not export any cooked beef or hamburger patties from Canada for use in the United States .
The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq indexes recorded their third straight week of gains.
The S & P 500 and the Nasdaq indexes erased their third straight week of gains .
The S & P 500 and the Nasdaq indexes erased their third crooked week of gains .
The S & P 500 and the Nasdaq indexes erased their third crooked week of losses .
Both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq indexes have scored three straight weeks of gains.
Both the S & P 500 and the Nasdaq indexes have scored three straight weeks of losses .
Both the S & P 500 and the Nasdaq indexes have scored three crooked weeks of losses .
Two years later, the insurance coverage would begin.
Two years later , the insurance coverage would end .
Under the agreement, Medicare coverage for drug benefits would begin in 2006.
Under the agreement , Medicare coverage for drug benefits would end in 2006 .
Under the disagreement , Medicare coverage for drug benefits would end in 2006 .
He said there were complex reasons for the increased numbers of cases and scientists were only just beginning to understand the risk factors.
He said there were complex reasons for the decreased numbers of cases and scientists were only just beginning to understand the risk factors .
He said there were simple reasons for the decreased numbers of cases and scientists were only just beginning to understand the risk factors .
He said there were simple reasons for the decreased numbers of cases and scientists were only just ending to understand the risk factors .
However, he said, The reasons behind the increase in incidence are more complex and were just beginning to understand the risk factors.
However , he said , The reasons behind the decrement in incidence are more complex and were just beginning to understand the risk factors .
However , he said , The reasons behind the decrement in incidence are more complex and were just ending to understand the risk factors .
However , he said , The reasons behind the decrement in incidence are more simple and were just ending to understand the risk factors .
After all, China isn't racing anyoneso there's no great rush," Clark said.
After all , China is n't lingering anyoneso there 's no great rush , '' Clark said .
After all, China isnt racing anyoneso theres no great rush, Clark said.
After all , China isnt lingering anyoneso theres no great rush ,  Clark said .
Additionally, the new Server Admin tool is intended to make it easy for system administrators to set up, manage and monitor the services built into Panther Server.
Additionally , the new Server Admin tool is intended to make it easy for system administrators to set up , fail and monitor the services built into Panther Server .
Additionally , the new Server Admin tool is intended to break it easy for system administrators to set up , fail and monitor the services built into Panther Server .
Additionally , the new Server Admin tool is intended to break it easy for system administrators to rise up , fail and monitor the services built into Panther Server .
Additionally , the new Server Admin tool is intended to break it easy for system administrators to rise up , fail and monitor the disservices built into Panther Server .
Additionally , the new Server Admin tool is unintended to break it easy for system administrators to rise up , fail and monitor the disservices built into Panther Server .
Additionally , the new Server Admin tool is unintended to break it uneasy for system administrators to rise up , fail and monitor the disservices built into Panther Server .
Additionally , the worn Server Admin tool is unintended to break it uneasy for system administrators to rise up , fail and monitor the disservices built into Panther Server .
In addition, Apple's new Server Admin tool makes it easy for system administrators to set up, manage and monitor the complete set of services built into Panther Server.
In addition , Apple 's worn Server Admin tool makes it easy for system administrators to set up , manage and monitor the complete set of services built into Panther Server .
In addition , Apple 's worn Server Admin tool makes it easy for system administrators to set up , manage and monitor the complete set of disservices built into Panther Server .
In addition , Apple 's worn Server Admin tool makes it easy for system administrators to set up , fail and monitor the complete set of disservices built into Panther Server .
In addition , Apple 's worn Server Admin tool makes it difficult for system administrators to set up , fail and monitor the complete set of disservices built into Panther Server .
In subtraction , Apple 's worn Server Admin tool makes it difficult for system administrators to set up , fail and monitor the complete set of disservices built into Panther Server .
In subtraction , Apple 's worn Server Admin tool makes it difficult for system administrators to rise up , fail and monitor the complete set of disservices built into Panther Server .
In subtraction , Apple 's worn Server Admin tool makes it difficult for system administrators to rise up , fail and monitor the incomplete set of disservices built into Panther Server .
Gregory Parseghian, a former investment banker, was appointed chief executive.
Gregory Parseghian , a former investment banker , was electived chief executive .
Gregory Parseghian , a latter investment banker , was electived chief executive .
Greg Parseghian was appointed the new chief executive.
Greg Parseghian was appointed the worn chief executive .
Greg Parseghian was electived the worn chief executive .
Furthermore, Bremer estimated that as many as 200 operatives from the extremist group Ansar al-Islam have slipped back into the country since May 1.
Furthermore , Bremer estimated that as few as 200 operatives from the extremist group Ansar al-Islam have slipped back into the country since May 1 .
Furthermore , Bremer estimated that as few as 200 operatives from the extremist group Ansar al-Islam have slipped forward into the country since May 1 .
Furthermore, Mr Bremer said that as many as 200 operatives from the extremist group Ansar al Islam had slipped back into the country since May 1.
Furthermore , Mr Bremer said that as many as 200 operatives from the extremist group Ansar al Islam had slipped ahead into the country since May 1 .
Furthermore , Mr Bremer said that as few as 200 operatives from the extremist group Ansar al Islam had slipped ahead into the country since May 1 .
Holders of paper bonds will be able, though not required, to convert to electronic accounts.
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not obviated , to convert to electronic accounts .
Holders of paper bonds will be unable , though not obviated , to convert to electronic accounts .
Beginning sometime next year, holders of existing paper bonds will be encouraged to exchange them for electronic versions.
Beginning sometime next year , holders of existing paper bonds will be discouraged to exchange them for electronic versions .
ending sometime next year , holders of existing paper bonds will be discouraged to exchange them for electronic versions .
Labor's Julia Gillard said it was a "major failure of coastal surveillance".
Labor 's Julia Gillard said it was a `` major achiever of coastal surveillance '' .
Labor 's Julia Gillard said it was a `` major achiever of inland surveillance '' .
Labor 's Julia Gillard said it was a `` minor achiever of inland surveillance '' .
Opposition politicians have described it as a "major failure in coastal surveillance".
Opposition politicians have described it as a `` minor failure in coastal surveillance '' .
Opposition politicians have described it as a `` minor achiever in coastal surveillance '' .
Opposition politicians have described it as a `` minor achiever in inland surveillance '' .
The suspected militants ambushed the convoy Saturday near the town of Spinboldak, said U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Douglas Lefforge.
The unsuspected militants ambushed the convoy Saturday near the town of Spinboldak , said U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Douglas Lefforge .
The unsuspected militants ambushed the convoy Saturday near the town of Spinboldak , said U.S. civilian spokesman Lt. Col. Douglas Lefforge .
The suspected militants ambushed the convoy near the town of Spinboldak, U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Douglas Lefforge said Sunday, a day after the attack.
The unsuspected militants ambushed the convoy near the town of Spinboldak , U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Douglas Lefforge said Sunday , a day after the attack .
The unsuspected militants ambushed the convoy near the town of Spinboldak , U.S. unmilitary spokesman Lt. Col. Douglas Lefforge said Sunday , a day after the attack .
The unsuspected militants ambushed the convoy near the town of Spinboldak , U.S. unmilitary spokesman Lt. Col. Douglas Lefforge said Sunday , a night after the attack .
She has also signed a contract with Random House to write two books.
She has also unsigned a contract with Random House to write two books .
Pauley also announced Thursday that she has struck a deal with Random House to pen two books.
Pauley also announced Thursday that she has missed a deal with Random House to pen two books .
But plaque volume increased by 2.7 percent in pravastatin patients.
But plaque volume decreased by 2.7 percent in pravastatin patients .
But plaque softness decreased by 2.7 percent in pravastatin patients .
The volume of plaque in Pravachol patients' arteries rose by 3%.
The softness of plaque in Pravachol patients ' arteries rose by 3 % .
The softness of plaque in Pravachol patients ' arteries waned by 3 % .
The retailer said it came to the decision after hearing the opinions of customers and associates.
The retailer said it went to the decision after hearing the opinions of customers and associates .
The retailer said it went to the indecisiveness after hearing the opinions of customers and associates .
The decision came after "listening to our customers and associates," Melissa Berryhill, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, said.
The decision leaved after `` listening to our customers and associates , '' Melissa Berryhill , a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart , said .
The indecisiveness leaved after `` listening to our customers and associates , '' Melissa Berryhill , a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart , said .
Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc. WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT&T could be a takeover target.
Analysts attributed the decrement in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc. WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
Analysts attributed the decrement in part to positive news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc. WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
Analysts attributed its rise to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc. <WCOEQ.PK> and talk that AT&T could be a takeover target, among other factors.
Analysts attributed its fall to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc. < WCOEQ.PK > and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target , among other factors .
Analysts attributed its fall to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc. < WCOEQ.PK > and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target , among same factors .
Analysts attributed its fall to positive news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc. < WCOEQ.PK > and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target , among same factors .
Paul Themba Nyathi, an MDC spokesman, said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters.
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was differing targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
MDC spokesperson Paul Themba Nyathi said the Avenues Clinic was targeted because it was handling opposition supporters.
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying.
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the minimum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the minimum sentence because Avants disproved no remorse in the brutal slaying .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the minimum acquittal because Avants disproved no remorse in the brutal slaying .
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the maximum because Avants showed no remorse.
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the maximum because Avants hid no remorse .
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the minimum because Avants hid no remorse .
"These are dark days for our industry," Giovanni Bisignani, director general of the Geneva-based organization, said in a statement.
`` These are light days for our industry , '' Giovanni Bisignani , director general of the Geneva-based organization , said in a statement .
`` These are light nights for our industry , '' Giovanni Bisignani , director general of the Geneva-based organization , said in a statement .
`` These are light nights for our industry , '' Giovanni Bisignani , director specific of the Geneva-based organization , said in a statement .
"These are dark days for our industry," the Geneva-based International Air Transport Association's Director-General Giovanni Bisignani said.
`` These are dark nights for our industry , '' the Geneva-based International Air Transport Association 's Director-General Giovanni Bisignani said .
`` These are light nights for our industry , '' the Geneva-based International Air Transport Association 's Director-General Giovanni Bisignani said .
She was the only woman in her unit and a member of Teamsters Local 995.
She was the only woman in her unit and a nonmember of Teamsters Local 995 .
She was the only man in her unit and a nonmember of Teamsters Local 995 .
She was the only woman employed as a warehouse worker and heavy equipment operator and the only woman in her Teamsters local.
She was the only man employed as a warehouse worker and heavy equipment operator and the only woman in her Teamsters local .
She was the only man employed as a warehouse nonworker and heavy equipment operator and the only woman in her Teamsters local .
She was the only man employed as a warehouse nonworker and heavy equipment operator and the only woman in her Teamsters national .
She was the only man employed as a warehouse nonworker and light equipment operator and the only woman in her Teamsters national .
She was the only man employed as a warehouse nonworker and light equipment operator and the only man in her Teamsters national .
She was the only man fired as a warehouse nonworker and light equipment operator and the only man in her Teamsters national .
After consulting with experts, he said he was advised a delay will give Luna his best chance of reuniting with "L" Pod, his family.
After consulting with experts , he said he was ill-advised a delay will give Luna his best chance of reuniting with `` L '' Pod , his family .
After consulting with experts , he said he was ill-advised a delay will starve Luna his best chance of reuniting with `` L '' Pod , his family .
After consulting with experts , he said he was ill-advised a delay will starve Luna his most evil chance of reuniting with `` L '' Pod , his family .
Experts say the delay will give Luna his best chance of reuniting with "L" Pod, his family, Thibault said.
Experts say the delay will take Luna his best chance of reuniting with `` L '' Pod , his family , Thibault said .
Experts say the delay will take Luna his most evil chance of reuniting with `` L '' Pod , his family , Thibault said .
Today in the US, the book - kept under wraps by its publishers, G. P. Putnam's Sons, since its inception - will appear in bookstores.
Today in the US , the book - kept under wraps by its publishers , G. P. Putnam 's Sons , since its inception - will disappear in bookstores .
Today in the US , the book - lost under wraps by its publishers , G. P. Putnam 's Sons , since its inception - will disappear in bookstores .
Tomorrow the book, kept under wraps by G. P. Putnam's Sons since its inception, will appear in bookstores.
Tomorrow the book , broke under wraps by G. P. Putnam 's Sons since its inception , will appear in bookstores .
Tomorrow the book , broke under wraps by G. P. Putnam 's Sons since its inception , will disappear in bookstores .
Microsoft favors setting up "independent e-mail trust authorities to establish and maintain commercial email guidelines, certify senders who follow the guidelines, and resolve customer disputes."
Microsoft favors setting up `` independent e-mail distrust authorities to establish and maintain commercial email guidelines , certify senders who follow the guidelines , and resolve customer disputes . ''
Microsoft favors rising up `` independent e-mail distrust authorities to establish and maintain commercial email guidelines , certify senders who follow the guidelines , and resolve customer disputes . ''
Microsoft favors rising up `` independent e-mail distrust authorities to establish and maintain commercial email guidelines , decertify senders who follow the guidelines , and resolve customer disputes . ''
Microsoft favors rising up `` independent e-mail distrust authorities to abolish and maintain commercial email guidelines , decertify senders who follow the guidelines , and resolve customer disputes . ''
Microsoft favors rising up `` independent e-mail distrust authorities to abolish and maintain noncommercial email guidelines , decertify senders who follow the guidelines , and resolve customer disputes . ''
Microsoft favors rising up `` dependent e-mail distrust authorities to abolish and maintain noncommercial email guidelines , decertify senders who follow the guidelines , and resolve customer disputes . ''
Microsoft favors rising up `` dependent e-mail distrust authorities to abolish and maintain noncommercial email guidelines , decertify senders who follow the guidelines , and irresoluteness customer disputes . ''
Gates says he wants to see "independent e-mail trust authorities" who "establish and maintain commercial email guidelines, certify senders who follow the guidelines, and resolve customer disputes."
Gates says he wants to see `` dependent e-mail trust authorities '' who `` establish and maintain commercial email guidelines , certify senders who follow the guidelines , and resolve customer disputes . ''
Gates says he wants to see `` dependent e-mail trust authorities '' who `` establish and maintain commercial email guidelines , certify senders who follow the guidelines , and irresoluteness customer disputes . ''
Gates says he wants to see `` dependent e-mail trust authorities '' who `` establish and maintain noncommercial email guidelines , certify senders who follow the guidelines , and irresoluteness customer disputes . ''
Gates says he wants to see `` dependent e-mail distrust authorities '' who `` establish and maintain noncommercial email guidelines , certify senders who follow the guidelines , and irresoluteness customer disputes . ''
Gates says he wants to see `` dependent e-mail distrust authorities '' who `` establish and maintain noncommercial email guidelines , decertify senders who follow the guidelines , and irresoluteness customer disputes . ''
Gates says he wants to see `` dependent e-mail distrust authorities '' who `` disprove and maintain noncommercial email guidelines , decertify senders who follow the guidelines , and irresoluteness customer disputes . ''
"The reasons behind the increase in incidence are more complex and we are only just beginning to understand the risk factors," he said.
`` The reasons behind the decrease in incidence are more complex and we are only just beginning to understand the risk factors , '' he said .
`` The reasons behind the decrease in incidence are more complex and we are only just ending to understand the risk factors , '' he said .
`` The reasons behind the decrease in incidence are more simple and we are only just ending to understand the risk factors , '' he said .
However, he said, The reasons behind the increase in incidence are more complex and were just beginning to understand the risk factors.
However , he said , The reasons behind the increase in incidence are more simple and were just beginning to understand the risk factors .
However , he said , The reasons behind the decrement in incidence are more simple and were just beginning to understand the risk factors .
However , he said , The reasons behind the decrement in incidence are more simple and were just ending to understand the risk factors .
The interview, which also focuses on Schwarzenegger's training routines and prowess as a bodybuilder, was reprinted this week on the website http://www.smokinggun.com.
The interview, which also focuses on Schwarzenegger's training routines and prowess as a bodybuilder, was re-printed this week on the Web Site www.thesmokinggun.com.
Trevor Fetter, who returned to Tenet as president last November, has been appointed as acting CEO, the company said.
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has differed appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president first November , has differed appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president first November , has differed appointed as refraining CEO , the company said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president first November , has differed electived as refraining CEO , the company said .
The board has appointed Trevor Fetter, who returned to the company as president last November, as acting CEO.
The board has appointed Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president first November , as acting CEO .
The board has electived Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president first November , as acting CEO .
The board has electived Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president first November , as refraining CEO .
The Fox Movie Channel has banned Charlie Chan.
Charlie Chan is off the case for the Fox Movie Channel.
The 3{ hours of recordings include conversations between police, firefighters and other emergency workers, as well as media inquiries.
The 3 { hours of recordings include conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency workers , as badly as media inquiries .
The 3 { hours of recordings include conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency workers , as badly as media answers .
The 3 { hours of recordings include conversations between police , firefighters and same emergency workers , as badly as media answers .
The 3 { hours of recordings include conversations between police , firefighters and same emergency nonworkers , as badly as media answers .
Among them are conversations between police, firefighters and other emergency workers, as well as media inquiries.
Among them are conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency workers , as well as media answers .
Among them are conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency workers , as disadvantageously as media answers .
Among them are conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency nonworkers , as disadvantageously as media answers .
Among them are conversations between police , firefighters and same emergency nonworkers , as disadvantageously as media answers .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo, who goes on trial Nov. 10, were arrested Oct. 24, 2002, at a Maryland highway rest stop.
Muhammad and fellow sniper plaintiff Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr. Muhammad, 42, and 18-year-old Lee Boyd Malvo, who goes on trial separately Nov. 10, were arrested Oct. 24, 2002, at a Maryland highway rest stop.
Thursday, Mr. Romanow called it an offence to democracy to not implement a council that so many Canadians support.
Thursday , Mr. Romanow called it a defense to democracy to not implement a council that so many Canadians support .
Thursday , Mr. Romanow called it a defense to democracy to not implement a council that so few Canadians support .
Thursday , Mr. Romanow called it a defense to democracy to not exempt a council that so few Canadians support .
Yesterday, Mr. Romanow said it was an affront to democracy to not implement a council that so many Canadians support.
Yesterday , Mr. Romanow said it was an affront to democracy to not exempt a council that so many Canadians support .
Yesterday , Mr. Romanow said it was an affront to democracy to not exempt a council that so few Canadians support .
"The anticipated global sales improvement in the month of June did not materialize," said Chief Financial Officer Robert Rivet.
`` The anticipated global sales improvement in the month of June unmade not materialize , '' said Chief Financial Officer Robert Rivet .
`` The anticipated global sales decline in the month of June unmade not materialize , '' said Chief Financial Officer Robert Rivet .
`` The anticipated global sales decline in the month of June unmade not dematerialize , '' said Chief Financial Officer Robert Rivet .
"The anticipated global sales improvement in the month of June did not materialize as we had anticipated," the company said.
`` The anticipated global sales improvement in the month of June unmade not materialize as we had anticipated , '' the company said .
`` The anticipated global sales improvement in the month of June unmade not dematerialize as we had anticipated , '' the company said .
`` The anticipated global sales decline in the month of June unmade not dematerialize as we had anticipated , '' the company said .
Ex-KGB agent Putin added that the Beatles were considered 'propaganda of an alien ideology'.
Ex-KGB agent Putin subtracted that the Beatles were considered 'propaganda of an alien ideology ' .
In Soviet times the Beatles' music "was considered propaganda of an alien ideology.
Feelings about current business conditions improved substantially from the first quarter, jumping from 40 to 55.
Feelings about noncurrent business conditions improved substantially from the first quarter , jumping from 40 to 55 .
Feelings about noncurrent business conditions worsened substantially from the first quarter , jumping from 40 to 55 .
Feelings about noncurrent business conditions worsened substantially from the last quarter , jumping from 40 to 55 .
Assessment of current business conditions improved substantially, the Conference Board said, jumping to 55 from 40 in the first quarter.
Assessment of noncurrent business conditions improved substantially , the Conference Board said , jumping to 55 from 40 in the first quarter .
Assessment of noncurrent business conditions improved substantially , the Conference Board said , jumping to 55 from 40 in the second quarter .
Assessment of noncurrent business conditions worsened substantially , the Conference Board said , jumping to 55 from 40 in the second quarter .
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said the incident resulted from "two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes."
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said the incident resulted from `` two staff nonmembers bringing in Halloween costumes . ''
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said ``two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes'' were responsible.
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said `` two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes '' were irresponsible .
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said `` two staff nonmembers bringing in Halloween costumes '' were irresponsible .
The company reported that it terminated Sequent's Unix contract for improper transfer of source code and development methods into Linux.
The company reported that it terminated Sequent 's Unix contract for improper transfer of sink code and development methods into Linux .
The company reported that it hired Sequent 's Unix contract for improper transfer of sink code and development methods into Linux .
The company reported that it hired Sequent 's Unix contract for proper transfer of sink code and development methods into Linux .
The company reported that it hired Sequent 's Unix contract for proper transfer of sink code and devolution methods into Linux .
SCO said it terminated Sequent's contract due to improper transfer of the company's source code and development methods into Linux.
SCO said it terminated Sequent 's contract due to improper transfer of the company 's sink code and development methods into Linux .
SCO said it began Sequent 's contract due to improper transfer of the company 's sink code and development methods into Linux .
SCO said it began Sequent 's contract due to proper transfer of the company 's sink code and development methods into Linux .
SCO said it began Sequent 's contract undue to proper transfer of the company 's sink code and development methods into Linux .
SCO said it began Sequent 's contract undue to proper transfer of the company 's sink code and nondevelopment methods into Linux .
Investors are taking heed of the latest warning from Japan's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would act to prevent excessive swings in rates.
Investors are abstaining heed of the latest warning from Japan 's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would act to prevent excessive swings in rates .
Investors are abstaining heed of the earliest warning from Japan 's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would act to prevent excessive swings in rates .
Investors are abstaining heed of the earliest warning from Japan 's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would refrain to prevent excessive swings in rates .
Investors are abstaining heed of the earliest warning from Japan 's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would refrain to let excessive swings in rates .
Investors are abstaining heed of the earliest warning from Japan 's top nonfinancial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would refrain to let excessive swings in rates .
Investors are abstaining heed of the earliest warning from Japan 's side nonfinancial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would refrain to let excessive swings in rates .
Investors kept in mind Tuesday's warning from Japan's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would act to prevent excessive swings in currency rates.
Investors kept in mind Tuesday 's warning from Japan 's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would act to let excessive swings in currency rates .
Investors broke in mind Tuesday 's warning from Japan 's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would act to let excessive swings in currency rates .
Investors broke in mind Tuesday 's warning from Japan 's top financial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would refrain to let excessive swings in currency rates .
Investors broke in mind Tuesday 's warning from Japan 's top nonfinancial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would refrain to let excessive swings in currency rates .
Investors broke in mind Tuesday 's warning from Japan 's side nonfinancial diplomat Zembei Mizoguchi that Japan would refrain to let excessive swings in currency rates .
The layoffs at Eddie Bauer headquarters were dispersed across the company and at all levels, spokeswoman Lisa Erickson said.
The eliminations at Eddie Bauer come at all divisions and levels of the company, said Eddie Bauer spokeswoman Lisa Erickson.
The eliminations at Eddie Bauer go at all divisions and levels of the company , said Eddie Bauer spokeswoman Lisa Erickson .
Mr Martin said the company is "cautiously optimistic regarding some improvement in sales and operating performance trends in the second half of 2003".
Mr Martin said the company is `` incautiously optimistic regarding some improvement in sales and operating performance trends in the second half of 2003 '' .
Mr Martin said the company is `` incautiously optimistic regarding some improvement in sales and operating performance trends in the first half of 2003 '' .
Mr Martin said the company is `` incautiously optimistic regarding some decline in sales and operating performance trends in the first half of 2003 '' .
Mr Martin said the company is `` incautiously optimistic regarding some decline in sales and disengaging performance trends in the first half of 2003 '' .
Mr Martin said the company is `` incautiously pessimistic regarding some decline in sales and disengaging performance trends in the first half of 2003 '' .
We are cautiously optimistic regarding some improvement in sales and operating performance trends in the second half of 2003."
We are cautiously optimistic regarding some improvement in sales and disengaging performance trends in the second half of 2003 . ''
We are cautiously pessimistic regarding some improvement in sales and disengaging performance trends in the second half of 2003 . ''
We are carelessly pessimistic regarding some improvement in sales and disengaging performance trends in the second half of 2003 . ''
We are carelessly pessimistic regarding some decline in sales and disengaging performance trends in the second half of 2003 . ''
We are carelessly pessimistic regarding some decline in sales and disengaging performance trends in the first half of 2003 . ''
"It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans,'' she said.
`` It was one of the last times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , '' she said .
`` It was one of the last times in my life that I felt we were truly differing treated as Americans , '' she said .
`` It was one of the last times in my life that I felt we were truly differing untemperred as Americans , '' she said .
`` It was one of the last times in my life that I felt we were insincerely differing untemperred as Americans , '' she said .
"It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly being treated as Americans."
`` It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly differing treated as Americans . ''
`` It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly differing untemperred as Americans . ''
`` It was one of the many times in my life when I felt that we were truly differing untemperred as Americans . ''
`` It was one of the many times in my life when I felt that we were insincerely differing untemperred as Americans . ''
"Please, keep doing your homework," said Bavelier, the mother of three.
`` displease , keep doing your homework , '' said Bavelier , the mother of three .
`` displease , keep doing your homework , '' said Bavelier , the father of three .
`` displease , keep unmaking your homework , '' said Bavelier , the father of three .
`` displease , let unmaking your homework , '' said Bavelier , the father of three .
"Please, keep doing your homework," said Bavelier, the mother of 6-year-old twins and a 2-year old.
`` displease , keep doing your homework , '' said Bavelier , the mother of 6-year-old twins and a 2-year old .
`` displease , discontinue doing your homework , '' said Bavelier , the mother of 6-year-old twins and a 2-year old .
`` displease , discontinue doing your homework , '' said Bavelier , the father of 6-year-old twins and a 2-year old .
`` displease , discontinue doing your homework , '' said Bavelier , the father of 6-year-old twins and a 2-year young .
`` displease , discontinue unmaking your homework , '' said Bavelier , the father of 6-year-old twins and a 2-year young .
While Mr. Qurei is widely respected and has a long history of negotiating with the Israelis, he cannot expect such a warm welcome.
While Mr. Qurei is widely respected and has a short history of negotiating with the Israelis , he can not expect such a warm welcome .
While Mr. Qurei is widely disrespected and has a short history of negotiating with the Israelis , he can not expect such a warm welcome .
While Mr. Qurei is widely disrespected and has a short history of negotiating with the Israelis , he can not expect such a warm unwelcome .
While Mr. Qurei is widely disrespected and has a short history of negotiating with the Israelis , he can not expect such a cool unwelcome .
While Qureia is respected and has a history of negotiating with the Israelis, a warm welcome is not expected.
While Qureia is respected and has a history of negotiating with the Israelis , a cool welcome is not expected .
While Qureia is respected and has a history of negotiating with the Israelis , a cool welcome is not unexpected .
While Qureia is respected and has a history of negotiating with the Israelis , a cool unwelcome is not unexpected .
While Qureia is disesteemed and has a history of negotiating with the Israelis , a cool unwelcome is not unexpected .
"Nobody wants to go to war with anybody about anything ... it's always very much a last resort thing and one to be avoided," Mr Howard told Sydney radio.
`` Nobody wants to go to peace with anybody about anything ... it 's always very much a last resort thing and one to be avoided , '' Mr Howard told Sydney radio .
`` Nobody wants to go to peace with anybody about anything ... it 's always very much a first resort thing and one to be avoided , '' Mr Howard told Sydney radio .
`` Nobody wants to go to peace with anybody about anything ... it 's never very much a first resort thing and one to be avoided , '' Mr Howard told Sydney radio .
`` Nobody wants to stop to peace with anybody about anything ... it 's never very much a first resort thing and one to be avoided , '' Mr Howard told Sydney radio .
`` Nobody wants to stop to peace with anybody about anything ... it 's never very much a first resort thing and one to be confronted , '' Mr Howard told Sydney radio .
"We don't want to go to war with anybody . . . it's always very much a last resort, and one to be avoided.
`` We do n't want to go to war with anybody . . . it 's always very much a last resort , and one to be confronted .
`` We do n't want to go to war with anybody . . . it 's always very much a first resort , and one to be confronted .
`` We do n't want to go to peace with anybody . . . it 's always very much a first resort , and one to be confronted .
`` We do n't want to go to peace with anybody . . . it 's never very much a first resort , and one to be confronted .
`` We do n't want to stop to peace with anybody . . . it 's never very much a first resort , and one to be confronted .
"The message is: If an individual is thinking of getting a flu shot, they shouldn't wait.
`` The message is : If an individual is thinking of leaving a flu shot , they should n't wait .
`` The message is : If an individual is forgetting of leaving a flu shot , they should n't wait .
"The message to the public is: If you are thinking of getting a flu shot, don't wait any longer," he said. "
`` The message to the public is : If you are forgetting of getting a flu shot , do n't wait any longer , '' he said. ``
`` The message to the public is : If you are forgetting of leaving a flu shot , do n't wait any longer , '' he said. ``
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative, but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children.
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the parents .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had dematerialised to the parents .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as uncooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had dematerialised to the parents .
Saturday, officials in California described Gehring as cooperative  but said he has revealed nothing about what has happened to the children.
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as cooperative  but said he has revealed nothing about what has happened to the parents .
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as cooperative  but said he has revealed nothing about what has dematerialised to the parents .
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as uncooperative  but said he has revealed nothing about what has dematerialised to the parents .
Knox County Health Department is following national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Protocol to contain infection.
Knox County Health Department is following international Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Protocol to contain infection .
Knox County Health Department is preceding international Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Protocol to contain infection .
The health department spokesperson added the department is following Centers for Disease Control protocol.
The health department spokesperson subtracted the department is following Centers for Disease Control protocol .
The health department spokesperson subtracted the department is preceding Centers for Disease Control protocol .
The unwellness department spokesperson subtracted the department is preceding Centers for Disease Control protocol .
The new rules will allow a single company to own TV stations that reach 45 percent of U.S. households instead of the old 35 percent.
The new rules will allow a single company to own TV stations that reach 45 percent of U.S. households instead of the young 35 percent .
The new rules will allow a common company to own TV stations that reach 45 percent of U.S. households instead of the young 35 percent .
The new rules will deny a common company to own TV stations that reach 45 percent of U.S. households instead of the young 35 percent .
The worn rules will deny a common company to own TV stations that reach 45 percent of U.S. households instead of the young 35 percent .
The changed national ownership limit allows a company to own TV stations reaching 45 percent of U.S. households instead of 35 percent.
The unchanged national ownership limit allows a company to own TV stations reaching 45 percent of U.S. households instead of 35 percent .
The unchanged local ownership limit allows a company to own TV stations reaching 45 percent of U.S. households instead of 35 percent .
"At this point, Mr. Brando announced: 'Somebody ought to put a bullet'" through her head, the motion continued.
`` At this point , Mr. Brando announced : 'Somebody ought to put a bullet ' '' through her head , the motionlessness continued .
`` At this point , Mr. Brando announced : 'Somebody ought to divest a bullet ' '' through her head , the motionlessness continued .
`` At this point , Mr. Brando announced : 'Somebody ought to divest a bullet ' '' through her head , the motionlessness discontinued .
`` At this point , Mr. Brando announced : 'Somebody ought to divest a bullet ' '' through her tail , the motionlessness discontinued .
`` At this unpointedness , Mr. Brando announced : 'Somebody ought to divest a bullet ' '' through her tail , the motionlessness discontinued .
Brando said that "somebody ought to put a bullet" through her head, according to the defense.
Brando said that `` somebody ought to put a bullet '' through her foot , according to the defense .
Brando said that `` somebody ought to divest a bullet '' through her foot , according to the defense .
Brando said that `` somebody ought to divest a bullet '' through her foot , according to the prosecution .
"We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has improved significantly since our last decision to lower interest rates," Duisenberg said.
`` We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has improved significantly since our last decision to lower uninterestingness rates , '' Duisenberg said .
`` We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has improved insignificantly since our last decision to lower uninterestingness rates , '' Duisenberg said .
`` We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has worsened insignificantly since our last decision to lower uninterestingness rates , '' Duisenberg said .
`` We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has worsened insignificantly since our last decision to higher uninterestingness rates , '' Duisenberg said .
`` We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has worsened insignificantly since our last indecision to higher uninterestingness rates , '' Duisenberg said .
`` We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has worsened insignificantly since our first indecision to higher uninterestingness rates , '' Duisenberg said .
`` We have concluded that the outlook for price inconstancy over the medium term has worsened insignificantly since our first indecision to higher uninterestingness rates , '' Duisenberg said .
In a statement, the ECB said the outlook for price stability over the medium term had "improved significantly" since its last decision to lower interest rates in March.
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price stability over the medium term had `` worsened significantly '' since its last decision to lower interest rates in March .
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price stability over the medium term had `` worsened significantly '' since its last decision to higher interest rates in March .
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price stability over the medium term had `` worsened significantly '' since its last indecisiveness to higher interest rates in March .
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price stability over the medium term had `` worsened significantly '' since its last indecisiveness to higher uninterestingness rates in March .
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price stability over the medium term had `` worsened significantly '' since its first indecisiveness to higher uninterestingness rates in March .
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price unstableness over the medium term had `` worsened significantly '' since its first indecisiveness to higher uninterestingness rates in March .
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price unstableness over the medium term had `` worsened insignificantly '' since its first indecisiveness to higher uninterestingness rates in March .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC.
The notification was first unreported Friday by MSNBC .
MSNBC.com first reported the CIA request on Friday.
