Turtles are reptiles of the order Testudines (or Chelonii
Turtle, tortoise or terrapin
The word chelonian is popular among veterinarians, scientists, and conservationists working with these animals as a catch-all name for any member of the superorder Chelonia, which includes all turtles living and extinct, as well as their immediate ancestors.
Anatomy and morphologyThe largest living chelonian is the leatherback sea turtle (Dermochelys coriacea), which reaches a shell length of
Giant tortoises of the genera Geochelone, Meiolania, and others were relatively widely distributed around the world into prehistoric times, and are known to have existed in North and South America, Australia, and Africa.
They became extinct at the same time as the appearance of man, and it is assumed humans hunted them for food.
The only surviving giant tortoises are on the Seychelles and Galápagos Islands, and can grow to over
Neck withdrawal
Turtles are divided into two groups according to how they withdraw their necks into their shells (something the ancestral Proganochelys could not do).
The Cryptodira withdraw their necks backwards while contracting it under their spine, whereas the Pleurodira contract their necks to the side.
Head
Most turtles that spend most of their lives on land have their eyes looking down at objects in front of them.
Some aquatic turtles, such as snapping turtles and soft-shelled turtles, have eyes closer to the top of the head.
These species of turtles can hide from predators in shallow water, where they lie entirely submerged except for their eyes and nostrils.
Near their eyes, sea turtles possess glands that produce salty tears that rid their body of excess salt taken in from the water they drink.Turtles have rigid beaks, and use their jaws to cut and chew food.
Instead of having teeth, which they appear to have lost about 150-200 million years ago,Long in the tooth: Genome proves turtles evolve…very slowly the upper and lower jaws of the turtle are covered by horny ridges.
Carnivorous turtles usually have knife-sharp ridges for slicing through their prey.
Herbivorous turtles have serrated-edged ridges that help them cut through tough plants.
They use their tongues to swallow food, but unlike most reptiles, they cannot stick out their tongues to catch food.
Shell
The upper shell of the turtle is called the carapace.
The lower shell that encases the belly is called the plastron.
The carapace and plastron are joined together on the turtle's sides by bony structures called bridges.
The inner layer of a turtle's shell is made up of about 60 bones that include portions of the backbone and the ribs, meaning the turtle cannot crawl out of its shell.
In most turtles, the outer layer of the shell is covered by horny scales called scutes that are part of its outer skin, or epidermis.
Scutes are made up of the fibrous protein keratin that also makes up the scales of other reptiles.
These scutes overlap the seams between the shell bones and add strength to the shell.
Some turtles do not have horny scutes.
For example, the leatherback sea turtle and the soft-shelled turtles have shells covered with leathery skin, instead.The rigid shell means turtles cannot breathe as other reptiles do, by changing the volume of their chest cavities via expansion and contraction of the ribs.
Instead, they breathe in two ways.
First, they employ buccal pumping, pulling air into their mouths, then pushing it into their lungs via oscillations of the floor of the throat.
Secondly, when the abdominal muscles that cover the posterior opening of the shell contract, the internal volume of the shell increases, drawing air into the lungs, allowing these muscles to function in much the same way as the mammalian diaphragm.The shape of the shell gives helpful clues about how a turtle lives.
Most tortoises have a large, dome-shaped shell that makes it difficult for predators to crush the shell between their jaws.
One of the few exceptions is the African pancake tortoise, which has a flat, flexible shell that allows it to hide in rock crevices.
Most aquatic turtles have flat, streamlined shells which aid in swimming and diving.
American snapping turtles and musk turtles have small, cross-shaped plastrons that give them more efficient leg movement for walking along the bottom of ponds and streams.The color of a turtle's shell may vary.
Shells are commonly colored brown, black, or olive green.
In some species, shells may have red, orange, yellow, or grey markings, often spots, lines, or irregular blotches.
One of the most colorful turtles is the eastern painted turtle, which includes a yellow plastron and a black or olive shell with red markings around the rim.Tortoises, being land-based, have rather heavy shells.
In contrast, aquatic and soft-shelled turtles have lighter shells that help them avoid sinking in water and swim faster with more agility.
These lighter shells have large spaces called fontanelles between the shell bones.
The shells of leatherback sea turtles are extremely light because they lack scutes and contain many fontanelles.It has been suggested by Jackson (2002) that the turtle shell can function as pH buffer.
To endure through anoxic conditions, such as winter periods trapped beneath ice or within anoxic mud at the bottom of ponds, turtles utilize two general physiological mechanisms.
In the case of prolonged periods of anoxia, it has been shown that the turtle shell both releases carbonate buffers and uptakes lactic acid.
Skin and molting
As mentioned above, the outer layer of the shell is part of the skin; each scute (or plate) on the shell corresponds to a single modified scale.
The remainder of the skin is composed of skin with much smaller scales, similar to the skin of other reptiles.
Turtles do not molt their skins all at once, as snakes do, but continuously, in small pieces.
When turtles are kept in aquaria, small sheets of dead skin can be seen in the water (often appearing to be a thin piece of plastic) having been sloughed off when the animals deliberately rub themselves against a piece of wood or stone.
Tortoises also shed skin, but dead skin is allowed to accumulate into thick knobs and plates that provide protection to parts of the body outside the shell.By counting the rings formed by the stack of smaller, older scutes on top of the larger, newer ones, it is possible to estimate the age of a turtle, if one knows how many scutes are produced in a year.
LimbsTerrestrial tortoises have short, sturdy feet.
Tortoises are famous for moving slowly, in part because of their heavy, cumbersome shells, which restrict stride length.
Amphibious turtles normally have limbs similar to those of tortoises, except the feet are webbed and often have long claws.
These turtles swim using all four feet in a way similar to the dog paddle, with the feet on the left and right side of the body alternately providing thrust.
Large turtles tend to swim less than smaller ones, and the very big species, such as alligator snapping turtles, hardly swim at all, preferring to walk along the bottom of the river or lake.
As well as webbed feet, turtles have very long claws, used to help them clamber onto riverbanks and floating logs upon which they bask.
Male turtles tend to have particularly long claws, and these appear to be used to stimulate the female while mating.
While most turtles have webbed feet, some, such as the pig-nosed turtle, have true flippers, with the digits being fused into paddles and the claws being relatively small.
These species swim in the same way as sea turtles do (see below).Sea turtles are almost entirely aquatic and have flippers instead of feet.
Sea turtles fly through the water, using the up-and-down motion of the front flippers to generate thrust; the back feet are not used for propulsion, but may be used as rudders for steering.
Compared with freshwater turtles, sea turtles have very limited mobility on land, and apart from the dash from the nest to the sea as hatchlings, male sea turtles normally never leave the sea.
Females must come back onto land to lay eggs.
They move very slowly and laboriously, dragging themselves forwards with their flippers.
Behaviour
SensesTurtles are thought to have exceptional night vision due to the unusually large number of rod cells in their retinas.
Turtles have color vision with a wealth of cone subtypes with sensitivities ranging from the near ultraviolet (UV A) to red.
Some land turtles have very poor pursuit movement abilities, which are normally found only in predators that hunt quick-moving prey, but carnivorous turtles are able to move their heads quickly to snap.
Intelligence
It has been reported that wood turtles are better than white rats at learning to navigate mazes.
Case studies exist of turtles playing.
In the laboratory, turtles (Pseudemys nelsoni) can learn novel operant tasks and have demonstrated a long-term memory of at least 7.5 months.
Ecology and life history
Although many turtles spend large amounts of their lives underwater, all turtles and tortoises breathe air, and must surface at regular intervals to refill their lungs.
They can also spend much or all of their lives on dry land.
Aquatic respiration in Australian freshwater turtles is currently being studied.
Some species have large cloacal cavities that are lined with many finger-like projections.
These projections, called papillae, have a rich blood supply, and increase the surface area of the cloaca.
The turtles can take up dissolved oxygen from the water using these papillae, in much the same way that fish use gills to respire.
Diet
A turtle's diet varies greatly depending on the environment in which it lives.
Adult turtles typically eat aquatic plants;
Systematics and evolution
The first proto-turtles are believed to have existed in the late Triassic Period of the Mesozoic era, about 220 million years ago, and their shell, which has remained a remarkably stable body plan, is thought to have evolved from bony extensions of their backbones and broad ribs that expanded and grew together to form a complete shell that offered protection at every stage of its evolution, even when the bony component of the shell was not complete.
This is supported by fossils of the freshwater Odontochelys semitestacea or "half-shelled turtle with teeth", from the late Triassic, which have been found near Guangling in southwest China.
Odontochelys displays a complete bony plastron and an incomplete carapace, similar to an early stage of turtle embryonic development.
Classification of turtles
Order Testudines
Genus †Xinjianchelys
Genus †Hangaiemys
Family †Thalassemydidae
Genus †Solnhofia
Genus †Thalassemys
Genus †Santanachelys
Family †Sinemydidae
Suborder Pleurodira
Family †Araripemydidae
Superfamily Pelomedusoides
Family †Bothremydidae
Family Pelomedusidae (African sideneck turtles)
Family Podocnemididae (Madagascan big-headed and American sideneck river turtles)
Family Chelidae
Suborder Cryptodira
Family †Solemydidae
Infraorder Eucryptodira
Basal and incertae sedis
†"Sinemys" wuerhoensis
Genus †Judithemys
Genus †Osteopygis
Genus †Planetochelys
Genus †Protochelydra
Genus †Platysternon
Family Chelydridae (snapping turtles)
Family †Eurysternidae
Family †Macrobaenidae
Family †Plesiochelyidae
Family †Xinjiangchelyidae
Superfamily Chelonioidea (sea turtles)
Family †Toxochelyidae
Family Cheloniidae (green sea turtles and relatives)
Family Dermochelyidae (leatherback sea turtles)
Superfamily Testudinoidea
Family †Haichemydidae
Family †Lindholmemydidae
Family †Sinochelyidae
Family Emydidae (pond, box, and water turtles)
Family Geoemydidae (Asian river turtles, Asian leaf turtles, Asian box turtles, and roofed turtles)
Family Testudinidae (true tortoises)
Superfamily Trionychoidea
Family †Adocidae
Family Carettochelyidae (pignose turtles)
Family Dermatemydidae (river turtles)
Family Kinosternidae (mud turtles)
Family Trionychidae (softshell turtles)
Fossil recordTurtle fossils of hatchling and nestling size have been documented in the scientific literature.
GenomicsTurtles possess diverse chromosome numbers (2N = 28-66) and a myriad of chromosomal rearrangements have occurred during evolution.
In captivity
Turtles, particularly small terrestrial and freshwater turtles, are commonly kept as pets.
Among the most popular are Russian tortoises, spur-thighed tortoises, and red-eared sliders.
It is illegal in every state in the U.S. for anyone to sell any turtles under
As food, traditional medicine, and cosmetics
The flesh of turtles, calipash or calipee, was, and still is, considered a delicacy in a number of cultures.
Conservation statusIn February 2011, the Tortoise and Freshwater Turtle Specialist Group published a report about the top 25 species of turtles most likely to become extinct, with a further 40 species at very high risk of becoming extinct.
This list excludes sea turtles, however both the leatherback and the Kemp's ridley would make the top 25 list.
The report is due to be updated in four years time allowing to follow the evolution of the list.
Between 48 to 54% of all 328 of their species considered threatened, turtles and tortoises are at a much higher risk of extinction than many other vertebrates.
Of the 263 species of freshwater and terrestrial turtles, 117 species are considered Threatened, 73 are either Endangered or Critically Endangered and 1 is Extinct.
Of the 58 species belonging to the Testudinidae family, 33 species are Threatened, 18 are either Endangered or Critically Endangered, 1 is Extinct in the wild and 7 species are Extinct.
71% of all tortoise species are either gone or almost gone.
Asian species are the most endangered, closely followed by the five endemic species from Madagascar.
Turtles face many threats, including habitat destruction, harvesting for consumption, and the pet trade.
The high extinction risk for Asian species is primarily due to the long-term unsustainable exploitation of turtles and tortoises for consumption and traditional Chinese medicine, and to a lesser extent for the international pet trade.
Nonetheless, wild turtles continue to be caught and sent to market in large number (as well as to turtle farms, to be used as breeding stock
See also
Animal track
Cultural depictions of turtles
Symposium on Turtle Evolution
Notes
References
Further reading
External links
Chelonian studbook Collection and display of the weights/sizes of captive turtles
Biogeography and Phylogeny of the Chelonia (taxonomy, maps)
New Scientist article (including video) on how the turtle evolved its shell