another feature on the *UNKNOWN* is a display of the posted speed limit on the road which you are currently on right above your current displayed speed .
i found myself not even looking at my car *UNKNOWN* as i could easily see my current speed and the speed limit of my route at a glance .
my final decision was to keep the *UNKNOWN* and return the 750 because i really liked the graphic turn indicator and the posted speed limit and current speed indicators .
it even tells you the speed limit on most roads .
the new display posts speed limit signs of major roads flush left on the screen , which is a new feature that is also really helpful , if you 're driving in an unfamiliar area .
display is excellent , the layout of information on the screen is very good showing upcoming turns at the top , your speed , the local speed limit and the estimated time of arrival at the bottom .
but the name of the game for thieves is speed .
with a *UNKNOWN* button , you can track your *UNKNOWN* speed , moving time , stopped time , average speed total for the trip , average moving speed , *UNKNOWN* .
it tells you on the main screen your estimated time of arrival which will change depending upon your stops and speed .
well , you can one up him now by not only announcing the time , but the average speed as well , and you have documented proof of the reason you were delayed for precisely 7 .
, speed of map updates is awesome .
the navigation display shows more information , such as next turn street and speed limit , and the picture update is smooth instead of jerky as i have seen in other models .
*UNKNOWN* seems to underestimate speed limits on community highways and gives sub , optimal routes .
for example , on the route from rocky mountain national park to arches national park *UNKNOWN* 's route is 40 *UNKNOWN* shorter on a 7 hour drive because it chooses shorter route along minor highways instead of longer route along i , 70 with higher speed limit .
if you are driving in *UNKNOWN* or other major city , be prepared to add 1 minute for each red traffic light and beware that *UNKNOWN* expects you to drive with a speed close to speed limit along *UNKNOWN* streets .
, *UNKNOWN* shows speed limit on most highways and some streets .
speed , , on most major highways , it tells what the speed limit is for that road and tells you what your speed is .
indicates posted speed limits of the road you are on
on the lower left hand side , this unit shows the maximum speed limit for the road you are traveling .
this is very useful feature because many a times this will help to avoid the risk of getting a speeding ticket .
by the way , the bottom menu also shows your current driving speed .
that 's what the car 's *UNKNOWN* is for .
and , it 's nice that the *UNKNOWN* tells you that , at your current speed , you 'll reach your destination in 43 minutes .
when you are looking at the map , you are shown the speed limit for the road you are traveling on , and your actual speed .
i have noticed that when i see a speed limit sign on the road , indicating a change of speed limit for that road , the *UNKNOWN* is not far behind in changing the speed limit on the screen .
i can see that this could at some point become out of date if the governing authority changes the speed limit on a particular road , but it is a cool function nonetheless .
it was fun to know where you are and the speed that you are going and the time you will be there .
6 love the speed limit and actual speed indicators .
i have observed several cases on an interstate where the *UNKNOWN* required driving well over the speed limit in order to achieve the initial arrival estimate .
the city routes were somewhat closer but they could not have actually been faster because of the numerous traffic lights and slower driving speed .
i really love the new interface , the turn signs at the corner , speed limit indicator and the fast satellite reception .
it has a lot of good features , including a *UNKNOWN* , posted speed limits on major roads , and it notes your average and *UNKNOWN* speed on your current trip .
, alerting you that a rest stop is coming up in a mile , or speed alerts .
*UNKNOWN* , you can immediately see the speed limit for every road you are on .
the local speed limit is shown on left side of the screen with current driving speed shown at the bottom of the screen .
i also enjoy the estimated time of arrival feature that *UNKNOWN* itself automatically based on your travel speed .
having the speed limit show up on the screen was also great since i was in unfamiliar territory .
i watched the screen several times as i passed by a speed limit sign , and it would change almost immediately as i passed by !
the road i live off of , the speed limit is 45 , the *UNKNOWN* says that the speed limit is 50 .
from what i have seen as far as the speed limit issue is that it is off only by *UNKNOWN* , but dead on in other places .
, the speed limit sign on the display is *UNKNOWN* but in the first week of using the *UNKNOWN* i found it had the wrong speed limit a couple times .
the only glitch i have found so far is that the speed limits are not 100 % accurate , although the *UNKNOWN* , amazingly , is able to very accurately tell you how fast your vehicle is moving .
i was a little disappointed in the *UNKNOWN* of the posted speed limit , as i 'm guilty of not paying close enough attention to those signs , especially *UNKNOWN* interstate speed traps that are constantly changing up and down .
i also really like the way it shows my speed and the posted speed limit .
the posted speed limit on the screen is pretty cool too .
in the week that i have had it , it 's been spot on in providing directions and keeps up with the speed i am traveling .
shows the speed limits on the major roads !
the turn or exit instructions happen too close to the turns or exits when at highway speeds .
there should be some features built , in the device such as speed limit monitor .
this greatly helps the driver to keep his eye on the road instead of looking at the *UNKNOWN* from time to time .
some countries impose lower speed limit in residential areas .
one unexpected feature is the speed limit and actual speed displayed on the map .
the speed limit is usually correct except on recently modified highways .
i often find myself wondering if the speed limit changed and i did n't see the sign , so for this one feature i leave the unit on even if it is not navigating to a set location .
if it helps me avoid one speeding ticket it will have paid for itself .
i liked the way it tells you the speed limit and how fast you are going .
it knows exactly what the speed limit is on all major routes .
it is cool to always know what the speed limit is and exactly how fast you are traveling .
, tells you the streets speed limit
it is very easy to use , and when driving in the us , it displays the speed limit and your speed , which is helpful when converting from kms to miles .
local speed limit sometimes were not correct , then we would pass a speed limit sign & it would correct itself .
showing actual speed is nice , especially for the little women , as she loves to remind me along the way .
plus you can download speed cameras alerts at *UNKNOWN* :
i ca n't believe how accurate and detailed the information estimated time of arrival , speed limits along the way , and detailed map of my route , to name a few .
the new speed limit display on the 205 255 is quite helpful .
speed of calculation , accuracy , and *UNKNOWN* of operation are top notch .
