THis is an odd one.
Why shouldn't I want what I aught to do?
Is it not human nature to want to do what is good?

The problem is not writing what I aught.
For if I Write the I do just want to write what i aught, really.

But rather the conflict is in wanted to write at all.
Or to edit.
Or to finish writing.
And not just go off to the next task.

On the other hand perhaps I aught not to write?
But who is judging what I aught?
Some would perhaps suggest that for clarity all my work should 
simply be executable.
That I aught to have my papers and my experments be the same document.
Knuth proposed that with his Web language (no relation to the internet),
in the last 70s?

Then of course continueing directly from web,
comes Weave, sweave,
and most resently KnitR.
All for mixing your programming into your publications.
I guess I use some of that in my graphs and visualistations
that generate directly into my reports.
But really they are graphs I've seen before

But JuPyTer which I use to run my experiments itself,
can be used to be publications.
I've read books written in it.
ANd that is good.
I think the conference paper on JuPyTer was written in JuPyTer too.
And I'm pretty sure their are a few others.
I know it does get used to make preseantions.

And certainly annoated and published jupyter notebooks,
for experiments are useful to me when ever i see them.
My current work, will have that realeased.
I guess some would argue that is all I should release.
I guess they would be wrong.

So others no doubt have other opinons,
but perhaps we are not to argue who,
is the moral compas of the aught of publications and writing.
But can we argue the is?
The actual?
I suspect I have gone way off topic and this is not the question and all.
Where did I start.
Top of my page says Confligt between what I aught tio write and what I want to write.
So again, perhaps I need to look at what I want.
But this seems to superfial, and already addressed.
So we return to aught.
Perhaps there is no person to deside Aught.
That it exists outside.
This seems even more philosophical and unuseful still.
So if we are done with Who,
and there is no independent What.
Then is there a why?
I think the Why of aught is touched on before.
But without a What, independent or derived from Who then we have nothing to why about.
Can we dervie the What from the Why?
Way too far gone.
So something else then.
What do I want to write?
Very little I suspect.
But I do want to express my self.
I wonder should I instead ask about the conflict between what I want to write and what I have the capacity to write.
Interesting that paraphrases to Conflict between what I want to write and what I can write.
A almost parapharse of the original questions is the conflict between what I want to write and what I Should write.
ANd can  is sometimes a synonym for should.
Especially if we are thinking in the bounds of social exectations.

Perhaps this whole document is a example of some conflict?
I aught to answer it directly,
but I skirt around that so that I can ask what the question even means.
And perhapos go of on side tangents to talk about,
what did knuth call it?
Executable documents?
No Literate Programming.
That seems a worse name.
Then again, a more unfortuanle name was web in the first place.
So I guess it is , nope over.

