Well if my reasarch subject were to speak to me 
I hope they would say what they mean.
Afterall they are (i hope) entities of pure meaning,
and my thesis is on making them speak.

What would I say if I wasn't concerned with what the examiners might think?
I don't know.
I don't think it would change much.
I think my related works / lit review section / background,
of every paper I write would be alot shorter.
More like it was in my research proposal.
Where all I say about a method is what paper it is from,
and what paper it was based on, and maybe task it was for and how well it performed.
and then leave the reader to look up the orginal paper,
if they wanted to know anything about how it works.

I think I would present all my work as nested dot points.
Many fold deep.
Full sentences, but no paragraphsm,
just a nested structure of information.

I wrote a report like that a while ago.
Its kinda the basis of the paper I am working on now.
I wrote it for my supervisors since they were all away,
and I wanted to explain what I had been up to while they were all gone.
I Don't know if a single word of its content is still in the paper.
Indeed I never tried to copy sections from it to the paper.
Some of the diagrams from it are in the paper though.

I wonder would I express things with more Or less math?
I guess I would use more,
for my issue with using math is how it interupts the paragraph flow.
But since everything would be dot points then there is no running wall/flow of text to interupt.

We are talking deep dot pounts.
Like 5 or more deep.
I guess I have sections
subsections, subsubsections, and paragraphs already.
So at very least 5 deep since sentences are below.
I think it would go deeper though.
Sentences which are examples or formular would have  that other sentences
which say what various mean etc nested under them.
Rather than being next to them as it is in traditional flow.

Away from that I probably would not write some sections.
As i said my lit review would be much sorter.
I wonder would I get rid of the introduction?
I'd certainly mess with bits of it.
I don't particular like writing the motivation section.
I'll let the reader motivate its uses them self.
or perhaps motivate it in the future work I derive from it.

I would probably kill of that last paragraph of my introductions,
that say "The rest of the paper will be organised as follows"
thats not needed.
Though maybe a table of contents instead.
Maybe.
Probably not.
Consider every single accademic paper in my area 
has the same heading titles,
With maybe one or two variations.
It is always Intro, Related work, Method, Evalutation Details, Results, Discussion, Conclusion.
Maybe a corpus construction in there, but minor changes.
WE all kniow the structure, telling people what section it is in probaly doesnt help?
Do I Care that MEthod is section 3? probably not.
Its not value.

I Wonder if I would overall be writing more or less?
If I didn't have to care for others, 
maybe I would put less effor in being consise.
But on the otehr hand, so many things I would just not write.

The page count would go right up.
Since dot points take more space.
PArticularly with the ever increating indent/margin as I nest them.

So I guess dot points are great.
AS they say dot points are great, lets have more of those.

THat sounded like  good sentence to end on,
but I guess I have more time.
So dot points,
should they be varying in colour?
shape?
Maybe they should be numbered.
That would make for easy referencing.
Byt maybe I could just be drawing big arcing lines back to sentence I refered to.

Also I'd proably do something different with diagrams, aand tables.
Espessially tables of results.
I prob wouldn't give then captions.
Just write them after the paragrap that talks about results and say "In the table below".

Maybe its a good thing I don't get to do what I want.
After all we have developed these conventions for a reason. 

Though how many of thise reasons still hold?
Convention has been devaliped back from days of typewriters,
with actual paper
where as now we have computers.
WE can have pages as beig as we want.
Colour.
Pictures and lines and diagrams.
We could be making papers that you walk through.
In 3D with ideas all overthe place.
But we don't because then Ideas would be all over the place.

Still perhaps convention must change.
