I first encountered Invenia's julia packages on Github,
and have interacted with Invenia employee's there, and on Github, for quiet a while.
Curtis Vogt pointed me at this particular position.

-----------

From everything I've seen the company is full of smart people, solving cool problems, at the forefront of the field.
The fact that Invenia is using Julia is very nice, as I find it a very pleasant language to work in.
I'm also very impressed and pleased with Invenia's commitment to open source.


---------------

I feel I am ideally suited to this role based on the description.
I have a MEng equivalent* degree in electrical engineering,
and I hope to soon be completing my PhD in machine learning.
I also have a bachelor degree in mathematics and computer science.
My particular speciality in machine learning is natural language processing,
however one of be beautiful features of modern ML techniques is how readily they transfer across domains.

I have been programming in julia for almost four years.
I am a significant contributor to the machine learning and data processing ecosystem.
I also have solid experience working in python, having completed several research projects using it.

I've used julia's distributed computing functionality a fair bit.
I am very comfortable working with remote channels etc.
I have a blog post (or two) on some aspects of that.
I also have passing familiarity with MPI and IPython.parallel.

I have extensive knowledge of machine learning.
Particular neural networks, but also other methods, such as SVMs, decision trees etc.
I'm very familiar with optimization, both global (gradient-free or with gradient methods), and constrained.
I believe one of the best ways to solve many problem is to reformulate them as a traditional optimization problem.
I have a number of papers and blog posts showing the use of machine learning and optimization to solve problems.
I also have a forth-coming book (https://www.springer.com/us/book/9789811300615),
which includes a detailed introduction to neural networks.
I have a practical working knowledge of statistics and probability theory, as is required in my field.

I am the co-maintainer of TensorFlow.jl.
I am intimately familiar with it's use, and the inner workings of the TensorFlow system.
I have also been involved in the development of Flux, and of many of the packages in the JuliaML github.
I've used scikit-learn for several projects in python.
As well as other tools like XGBoost etc.

* My qualification of a Bachelors of Engineering is a terminal degree in engineering.
It was re-titled to a Masters of Engineering after I commenced, and is a full qualification to practice as an engineer in Australia.


------------

I'ld like to develop my skills for working with truly large scale data, and the cloud.
While I have some experience with OpenStack, I'ld like to become familiar with the whole suite of options for serious compute offered by providers such as AWS.
I'ld  also like to learn to use big data tools such as Spark and Hadoop.

On the machine learning front,
I would like gain more knowledge of working with connected graphs.
While I am familiar with working with sequences and trees (as occur in natural language processing).
I have only scratched the beginnings of working with more general graphs.
